However your installation or some programs within will probably not be useable if CHKDSK /f found things to fix.
I choose a developer's way. I coded a little console utility which fills available space with files and then reads them. If the file was read successfully then we can delete it. And if not... we hit the bad block, just leave that file in the bad block placeholders folder forever. Cons: it'll test free space only.
Since you backed up your important data anyway, if your first bad sector is somewhere in the middle of the drive, it may be best to reinstall Windows, and when formatting, make sure you partition just below that bad sector. 
The problem is that some portion of your current Windows installation may be on those damaged sectors.
I dropped an old IDE 1GByte hard drive once.  What happened after I reformatted it (not quick formatted) was that there was a big block of bad sectors in the middle of it.  The space before and after was useable.  So I partitioned accordingly, and was able to use the drive at a reduced capacity.  
If Windows is forcing you to run CHKDSK on this during each boot, you can override that by clearing the "dirty" bit.  This isn't supported by Windows (fsutil can set it but not clear it), so you will have to take the hard drive to another system and perform the steps here. 
After some deep digging, Easeus Partition Manager Home Edition has a feature called Disk Surface Test, which apparently reads the blocks off a drive and spots and marks the bad sectors, and based on what I've found so far, it makes no attempt to recover those blocks. More information on this page about the software's disk surface test: http://www.partition-tool.com/easeus-partition-manager/disk-surface-test.htm and here for download link: http://www.partition-tool.com/landing/home-download.htm (big green button at bottom of page).
Assuming all of your data is backed up off the drive, perform a full zero/format of the drive. This will write to every sector of the drive, thereby reallocating any already-detected bad sectors. However, I would anticipate that the zeroing operation will hang as well, as there are likely hundreds/thousands of bad sectors already, and that number will rapidly increase. Your drive is dying, and it will likely be completely dead soon. You aren't going to get much further use out of it.