The most easy way is to remove the hard disk (or ssd) and get a USB adapter for it and use another workstation to deploy the image. If this option is not available you will need to boot from the Windows PE disk 32 bit UEFI and have the wim image in that disk.  
Dism /apply-image /imagefilae:(directory and filename of your wim file) index:#(the number of the image. If you used a captured image of your own, type 1, otherwise you'll need to know which one is it) /applydir:w:\  
I've been trying to install Windows 8 on a UEFI-based computer using a USB flash drive. As far as I've have been able to gather, there have been some issues with this kind of installation, as the DVD images fail to boot in UEFI mode. Following this tutorial http://blog.thijssen.ch/2012/07/install-windows-8-in-uefi-mode.html, I've able to install from 64-bit only iso's, however I'd like to install from a AIO iso (only one available in my native language).
I've tried copying the bootx64.efi files from the /efi folder of a 64-bit image, but I get an error screen. Is there a way to fix/correct the iso image so that it can boot in UEFI mode?
I'll try to keep the instructions as simple as possible. If you don't understand a term, you can google that. There's plenty of information available. If you don't have a wim file available google instructions on how to capture an OS image properly. The beauty of this is that it doesn't have to be UEFI, it can be BIOS, but it has to be 32 bit. I installed mine to a Virtual Machine then captured the wim file.  
You can install and boot Windows 8 32bit UEFI, but it's not that simple. It involves using command prompt and a Windows PE 32 bit UEFI boot disk (if available) along with a 32 bit Windows WIM file.  
Voilá! Install the HDD to your device or reboot and remove Windows PE media. You should be able to boot uefi 32 bit now.  
32Bit Windows versions don't support UEFI. I think this causes your issues. You can export (DISM /Export-Image) the 64Bt Install.WIM from your AIO Install.wim and only use the correct one.