If for some reason the maintenance of the server passes to some other person (e.g. your project becomes very successful and you decide to hire another guy to manager the servers while you are busy with other stuff) he will naturally expect to run dpkg --get-selections to get all the installed packages.
I'm adding this here because in my case it solved a similar issue, and the hint for '--no-install-recommends' was not mentioned yet.
After all, really reading a man page helps sometimes - it turns out a similar apt-get option on 12.04 seems to be --no-install-recommends, which actually works in this case, since grub is listed as 'recommended' in the package information (I guess so it is not a "real" dependency?).
How do I make apt-get ignore some dependencies? For example, I wanted to install mailx so I can use it to send email from cron scripts/report-generating tools. However, installing mailx also installs exim4 and a whole bunch of dependencies (I already have Postfix installed) I don't really need and which I guess mailx can also live without.
You will have problems with other packages from your distribution's repos. This is exactly the case stated in the question: ubuntu has a great package manager and some very nice people maintaining the packages. And they have decided, that for the mailx program to work you need an MTA. So if you installed postfix from sources ubuntu wouldn't ask you to install exim.
You won't get "free" updates. Most of the time none ever updates the packages they installed from source. Because they need to track the software for new versions, rebuild it and all the dependent programs (try to remember them).
Try to use the distro's package management software as much as possible. Learn to build your own packages if you can't find one prebuilt and you'll become a better professional.
Using other people's work is very important on the road to any success. When you build some software from source (tarball), you miss the opportunity to use the distro's package manager's work. 
I've been looking for the -nodeps option to apt-get as well, but it didn't work, so ended up uninstalling/purging grub* after each kernel upgrade.
I've been looking for this option on a Ubuntu 12.04 Server running Xen. In my domains I use the -virtual kernel, and apt persistently tried to install grub with every kernel package upgrade. Grub however is not needed inside the domU when using p[yv]grub.