I have gone into folder settings and verified all hidden items are showing, I'm at a complete loss and have spent quite a fair amount of time browsing for a solution today.
Another possibility is that the report tool is saving it under another name, or with a different extension, from that shown. In that case, look for any new files in the expected directory, and open them with Notepad to see if they are indeed the CSV files.
From the report tool Open/Save dialog, right-mouse-click on the file you've just saved, select Copy, move in the dialog to C:\Users\<your user name>\Desktop, right-click and select Paste. The file should now be visible on your own Desktop. If you cannot access files in your own user name in ***C:\Users**, then you will either need to run the report tool under your credentials, or you'll need access to run under the tool's credentials.
I had the same problem which lead me here - it was solved by saving through C\Users\My Name\Desktop....created a new folder and saved it.  I then navigated to this same location through Excel and Windows Explorer and it's now there, though it's still not appearing directly on my desktop - but problem solved!  Thank you, I spent WAY too long trying to figure it out on my own.
I am trying to setup an excel spreadsheet using a .csv file as the data source, very simple but here's the issue; I cannot find ANY .csv file I have saved after exporting it from the program in which I run my report from. I export and save the report, type my desired file name and am able to chose from tab or comma delimited files. I have saved to my desktop, documents folder, favorites, etc. When I search for the files in my computer or the import data window in Excel, they are nowhere to be found even when typing the exact file name in the search bar. If I go back to my report and re-export it, I can see the file already saved and will even prompt me if I attempt to save using the same name.
I did search through many of the .csv realated topics that the search returned so I hope this is an appropriate new question...