That performs a hard reset, equivalent to yanking out the power cord and then restarting the machine. If the machine isn't completely hung, powercycle instead of hardreset might do the job. (Source.)
Have you considered running your server as a client on a virtual machine? You'd run the VM sofware (VMware, VirtualBox) on the physical server, then run a virtual machine with your rendering software as the client. With no other processing going on on the machine, you should get comparable performance, and it would be easier to stop and restart a virtual machine than a physical one.
Depending on the software, you may be able to add additional requirements for the timer reset, like network connectivity, render process still running, render process made some progress since last timer reset, or similar. I don't know available software on Windows, I've only been using watchdogs on Linux so far.
You can wire up the e-mail receiving to the execution of these commands with DavidPostill's answer. There are SSH clients for Windows; I believe PuTTY has a command-line interface.
If you have actual servers, they likely have a remote management feature that can be connected to even if the machine's main OS is completely frozen. Generally, you use SSH to connect to the controller. The specific command issued depends on the brand of your server.
If you are running rendering systems that consume a lot of power I am not sure if the specific device above can handle them, but there may be others out there that do.  Another thing to look for is "Controllable Power Strip."
You want a device called a "Remote Power Switch", one that we have used at my workplace to remotely restart cable modems is the UIS-322b below:
You can set it up with an IP address, and then log in to it to power on, power off, or power cycle either device connected, and set it on a schedule.  You cannot control it via email, but through the web interface.  You could still rig something up via wget or curl to automatically send a web request to it.  It may have other features and control possibilities I'm unaware of.
For a Dell servers, which use DRAC (Dell Remote Access Controller), the command to execute after SSH'ing into the DRAC is:
I would suggest you investigate whether the mainboards of these machines have a watchdog timer on board. I believe that these are reasonably common at least with Intel chipsets. If watchdog hardware is present, find suitable Windows software to set up the timer, and reset it on a regular basis as long as the machine remains unfrozen. If the machine freezes, the software won't be able to reset the timer any more, and the watchdog will reset the machine. That should at least resolve the hard system freezes.