CTRL+C deleted selected text, CTRL+X bringing up save options menu, LH Shift key not working, RH Shift works but sometimes adds additional characters.
Close the page/tab you are trying to copy & paste  to and open another fresh one .I had this problem when I occidentally moved the actual page on top of the page I was trying to copy and paste some info; to so closed it opened a new one and it worked .
What you can try is to view the clipboard to see what happens when you try to copy something. Windows 7 does not have the clipboard viewer (which was limited anyway), so get ClipSpy, then try copying various things to see if they end up in ClipSpy. Try copying some text, copying graphics (press PrintScreen to capture the screen), and try copying some files/folders. Do they show up in ClipSpy? Does the Paste option become available or does it remain grayed? By running these tests, we can narrow down what the problem is.
Who would believe such strange symptoms could result from a hardware fault. And yes i do look after my laptop very well and nothing was spilled on the keyboard and it had only 2years of light use.
Apart from keyboard orange light ion top LH corner of the Touchpad. Could not deselect the touch pad by double touching it. This occurred after downloading the later version of Synaptics driver.
ya i no this an old thread: but just want to offer my meaningful advice, try using IOBIT system care 6 i was having same problem with my toshiba satellite 32-bit win7 ultimate still found a forum that gave me this treat and it work. good luck .
If it works sometimes, then when it doesn’t, do you happen to have a browser open? If so, do you have some websites that you open regularly?
Downloaded  NEW version of Synaptics Mouse-keyboard driver software: v17.0.19 (previously was v 17.0.18.25)
I ask because there exist programs (especially Flash applets) that copy an empty string to the clipboard in a loop in order to disable copying or pasting. I first discovered this on a web-survey site, but they also exist on other pages in an attempt to prevent users from copying content; however they also block copy/paste from working on the whole system until the applet is killed! (Yes, it’s not very effective copy-protection and incredibly intrusive and sucks CPU cycles, but… um, that’s it.)
I used MS Malicious Software Removal Tool (MSRT) this scanned about 4million files and took about 6hours and all of these found absolutely nothing.
So last resort I changed the keyboard from a 6570 laptop (very similar HP Notebook) and Bingo it worked OK.
Does it happen constantly and consistently? That is, does it happen every time you boot and occur from startup to shutdown or does work sometimes?