I tried copying the link to download the file from Google Drive and pasting this into the "Open" window as the filename. This kind of worked in that the file appeared on the OLOIM server successfully, but it downloaded to a temporary folder on my computer first. I would like to find a way to avoid having to download it to my computer first, and just go straight from the online storage to the OLOIM server. Again, we don't have to use Google Drive for the online storage, we can use anything.
Our company has some Old Legacy Online Inventory Management systems (OLOIMs) where we have to individually upload thousands of PDFs to specific service tickets each day. The only way to get the files into the OLOIMs right now is to click the "Upload" button, then the "Open" box appears and you select the PDF on your computer to upload that corresponds to that service ticket. All of these PDFs are stored in an online storage location (Google Drive right now, but we could use any online storage). Right now, we download or sync all of these files locally before uploading them, which takes a long time. Is there a way to upload the file directly from the online storage, so it goes straight from the online storage to the OLOIM server without routing through my computer, using that upload button? We can't change anything on the OLOIM server, so we have to use that "Upload" button, but we can change all the other parts of the process before that point.
We also considered copying the links to the files stored on Google Drive and just posting these on the server, instead of attaching them on the server, but then we have access and permissions problems. We don't want the links to be public, but everyone who can access the server needs to access these files, but not everyone who can access the server can also access the Google Drive folder, and it isn't feasible to give them all permission to access the Google Drive folder because there are hundreds or thousands of these users who have access.