This is where some of these speed improvement programs can be legitimately useful. Some of them come as a form of custom ADSL driver. A smart ADSL driver can be configured to prioritise certain web browsing packets over P2P packets, so that your web browsing speed is largely unaffected when you are seeding torrents. In other words, it's a software implementation of Quality-of-Service. I remember having bought one that worked about 10 years ago, from a German software company. I can't remember the name though.
For example Windows isn't really prepared for 100 mb/s DSL connections and is noticeably slow (like ~80 mb/s only) unless you tweak the Registry properly. In this case a tweaking tool might save you some hassle, but usually appropriate tools are freely available either directly from Microsoft or from third parties.
There are a couple of ways your Internet connection speed can be improved, depending on your usage pattern.
I have to disagree with many of the answers here. Usually, (American) ISPs will slow down or "throttle" your access to certain websites or webservices. In general, if you live in America, you will NEVER hit the actual physical limit of data you can receive. 
99% of all "Speed up/Tweak your PC" are fake or do nothing but the very basics that every good SysOp will do anyways. There are however some tweaks for unusual system settings which in fact might result in a speed advantage.
I am not trying to imply that ALL speed enhancing software works, because we all know how many scams there are on the internet. But real speed-enhancing services do exist.
For example, you may have noticed that Internet browsing is very slow when you are seeding some torrents. When you are seeding a torrent, you are uploading, so why would it affect your browsing speed (which is largely downstream in terms of traffic volume)? The answer lies in the way TCP/IP works. Yes, when you browse websites, you are largely downloading, but your computer also needs to send acknowledge (ACK) packets to let the web servers know that you have indeed received data, otherwise the web server won't continue to send you new data. The ACK packets are very small, but they still need to be sent, which means it needs to use a little of your upstream bandwidth. Now, when you are seeding a torrent, the BitTorrent packets outnumber the ACK packets for your web browsing. Without proper packet prioritisation and scheduling, whichever generates the most packets basically gets to hog the upstream bandwidth.
Youtube and Netflix are the prime example of throttled services. If your ISP sees traffic going to or from Youtube, you can bet your connection is going to be suboptimal. However, if you were using one of these services, your ISP would only see traffic going to and from the service, and they would have no idea you are currently accessing Youtube. Measuring my own traffic, I get, on average, 250 kilobytes/second of data from Youtube normally. Through a private VPN I subscribe to, I usually get at least 2 megabytes/second during prime time. (I will not name my VPN for the sake of objectivity; I don't want this to look like an advertisement)
One example would be, you send a request to a server with a fast connection to download the content you want and relay it to you in a low bandwidth friendly way. Essentially zipping the internet.