Like many batch file solutions it periodically writes a file to the external HD (seriously... is there no other way of programattically interacting with a drive to keep it awake than by writing a file?), but it offers the convenience of a graphical interface and adds a number of options—several of which I find very useful.
Anyway, I know this is an answer to an old question, but it's where I found my first (and now supplanted) solution for keeping my external HD awake just a couple of months ago, so hopefully this solution will be of use to others—whether its a first solution for them or an improved one.
My 2.5" WD Scorpion Blue has an 8 seconds spin down interval set by firmware. I've tried that wdidle3 solution but the value written does not persist.
But I've found a solution for Windows, which also does not persist across restarts, but still you can schedule it on a startup and wake from standby events.
Anyway, I see four Group Policy settings related to "hybrid" hard disks. They can all be found in gpedit.msc under:
I also wanted to fine-tune the behavior of the scripts, but I wasn't excited about spending the time to figure out how to go about it. Thankfully I ran across something that I find more convenient to implement and tweak to my individual needs.
There's a Group Policy setting in Windows which disables the Non-Volatile (NV) power saving mode for hard disks which have this eco-feature. I believe the theory is that, if the HDD resume is instantaneous (or faster), then the OS can be much more aggressive in its power-down decision considerations:
My preferred solution – that I've switched to at home and at work – is a free & open source app (Windows only) called KeepAliveHD : http://keepalivehd.codeplex.com/
The app's called HDDScan, and with it you can create a .bat file with desired PM settings and bind it to aforementioned events.
If you're familiar with Linux, check out the hdparm command: http://linux.die.net/man/8/hdparm (particularly the -S switch).
I've been using the batch file approach to prevent my Western Digital external HDs from sleeping, but I wasn't a fan of the number of steps necessary to implement it—made worse since I had to do it with multiple drives.
You can see the source code on the project's page, which I like because it helps keep the program's behavior transparent (e.g. no hidden 'features') and I suppose it also might give non-Windows folks a starting place for creating something for their platform.
I've successfully turned off the spin down setting on a bunch of drives with it before. It sets the setting on the drive itself so it will persist no matter what computer you're using it with or how you format it :)