If you don't have control over the DHCP... Well, personally, i would just go bug the people who do (and tell them to get a DNS server in there for god sakes!)
In order to connect to the machine via it's hostname, you need a name-resolution service active on the network - that is, a DNS or WINS server. Seeing that you say your machines cannot ping each other by name, it appears that you have no DNS server in the network (or that neither machine is set up with a primary DNS server). Which begs the question - what network enviroment would have DHCP but no DNS?
You won't be albo to resolve the address unless it's in some DNS server. You need to know the IP address or you can use some services like No-IP to update a FQDN to the servers current IP address. Of course this will only work for a server that has a public IP address.
Assuming you have control over the DHCP server in your network, the easiest solution would be to set up a static ip mapping in the DHCP server. Make it give the linux server the same ip each time (bind a specific ip to the server's nic's MAC address).
If there IS a DNS server on the network, then you just have to set both machines up to contact it (network connection properties in windows, god-knows-where.conf in linux) and you're all done.
I don't want to specify an IP address, since it can change in a DHCP LAN. I tried to connect to the linux server's name, but neither Putty nor Windows' ping.exe could resolve it.
For internal addresses you might want to write a script on the server that will send you the IP that is has at some point in time.
You can configure dhcp to send a hostname with the dhcp request. Obviously you would need your dhcpd and nameserver to support this, but lots of routers support this feature so its worth checking if yours does.
Then you can edit the hosts file on the windows workstation (found in %systemroot%\system32\drivers\etc) and map a specific name to the address, and enjoy yourself.
I can think of other wild stuff that could circumvent all around this issue (write a script that pings the whole subnet, runs arp -a into a file, and then scans it to find the MAC address of the server, thereby resolving it's IP.. sheesh, this is sick). Seriously though, I would try to get a decent name resolution service up and running.