Also, as someone else mentioned, don't do RAID5.  Drives hold to much for it to work reliably - and back up your data.
However if you are using dell/hp raid controllers you have to be careful around compatibility, in my experience HP is the worst when it comes to non-hp drives with their controllers and will sometimes not present any monitoring info about the drives.
Look into the Samsung 850 series disks - at least for 1/2 the array - they are/were prosumer and offer good bang for buck, and are touted as being more reliable then 2d nand. (They use 3d nand).
If you are using them for writes, to avoid data corruption in the event of power failure you need to make sure that you only consider models with a supercap.
You need to be aware that RAID is not backup - if you are going to RAID a couple of SSD's thats fine, but get different brands of SSD's, or at least different models so they have different performance characteristics.  WHEN SSD'S DIE THEY ARE WAY MORE LIKELY TO DO SO WITHOUT WARNING, AND NO ABILITY TO PULL DATA OFF - on the flip side they are 10x as reliable as regular hard disks.
They are way, way faster then SAS disks.   I'd suggest the reason to get enterprise disks over consumer disks is not the speed, its the read-write cycles and better engineering - for example supercaps are present in some enterprise SSD's where the consumer grade version does not have this - if you loose power to the server your data is less likely to be killed.
The performance inconsistency of consumer SSDs can cause problems with some raid controllers, the spikes in I/O latency are exacerbated when using a raid controller as it often will not be using TRIM (I don't know of any controller that does). Enterprise drives are designed around consistent performance even without TRIM so they typically play well with RAID controllers.
If you do not need the high endurance there are lower end enterprise SSDs designed around high read, low write cycles. Intel S3500 or Samsung 845DC both offer cheap but raid controller compatible SSDs.