But where IRC really shines for work purposes is on Freenode. Lots and lots of channels where you can chat with the developers of the software you're using. It makes it easier to contribute back to the OSS community too, since you'll end up gtting asked to fix it yourself sometimes :-)
I use IRC indirectly and for personal use. By keeping in contact with other regional professionals, I have a group of experts I can rely on for advice, and keep up on what the state of the art is. Our organization previously used AIM in some administrative areas, but migrated to MS Communicator to keep traffic private and local.  It's possible we could replace it with IRC, but we'd just as soon try Jabber. Some people use it to ask if it's okay to stop by their cube in person. 
IRC is just another IM-protocol imo. We use IM for quick chats since our offices are in 3 different locations.
Not sure how helpful this is but for such a situation it was a great help since customers tend to get annoyed when they're put on hold often and this way you didn't have to go hunting for a port-resetter physically.
Within Ubuntu, IRC is used as a rendezvous communication and query tool. Rendezvous can take the form of a scheduled IRC meeting, or a simple "hey bob, i got a question" conversation. It's also used as a query tool, in the form "anyone know what the deal with X is?" Of course, if nobody's around to read anything, this can lead to traps of people asking questions, getting no answer and leaving immediately. Idling can also cause people to assume more activity than is actually happening.
I used to work in a big call center with technical support. Some people had higher privileges then others, only certain people could reset ports on switches, for example. Every person in our department was on a private IRC server, which also had some of the network administrators on it, which meant that we used it sometimes for keeping track of very recent issues that had not yet made it into the issue tracking system as well as requesting a port reset on a port when nothing else seemed to help.