To answer your question, most "high-quality" AP's are not routers meaning you will need a broadband router to which you should connect the AP(s). Many modern printers have wireless capability but you would have to check your printer.
TL;DR - no one can answer your question with the details you've given, but you should really consider using the wired Ethernet jacks that are available to you. 
The rest of your question is unanswerable. How can I possibly know if one AP will cover your whole office without going there to do a site survey? Sure you can get a NAS and printer that will plug into a wireless router, that's no problem, but you haven't provided any meaningful info. 
A broadband wireless router, rather than a simple wireless access point, adds the benefit of a firewall as well as port forwarding should you need it.
So, to put it very very simply, you will connect a broadband router to your business class cable modem then connect printers and NAS and AP(s) to the LAN ports on the router.
If I buy a high-quality wireless router, can I plug the internet directly in to it and share it amongst everyone in the office? With the same router allow access to a printer plugged in to the router as well as access to a NAS device? 
I've recently moved in to a new office who gets its internet through wired ports dotted around the room. I want to move them wireless but want to check which equipment would be useful before I start spending money!
Why on earth would you want to replace wired Ethernet with wireless? Especially if the wiring is already in the walls! Wireless should be a supplement to the business, not the only means of connectivity. 
The thing to remember about WiFi is that the maximum throughput with n is about 144Mbps. Compare this to your wired connection which is most likely running 1Gbps. Now, add to this the fact that WiFi is a shared medium meaning all wireless clients associated to a single AP are sharing that 144Mbps. Wired connections will provide significantly greater reliability and performance.