I'd go with the idea of creating an nLite'd XP disc. This gives you the most control over what is installed on the laptops on the first hit, and will minimize the number of visits to Windows Update, reboots and prompts along the way. It will also let you trim down the install footprint, and allow you to specify the common settings.
First, determine the flavour(s) of Windows XP that you want to install on these 9 laptops. If you're considering making them all Pro or Home, then it's even less work for you. Each flavour would obviously need its own nLite'd disc.
There are a couple of methods you can use and for your situation I'd suggest either sysprep, of which I'm no fan, or an unattended install using an answer file. There's some very good documentation around for both. However, you may wish to reconsider, at least for those machines for which you have a recovery dics or partition.
You're also not restricted by the OEM licenses which say you can't transfer XP to a new computer.  If you get Software Assurance with the eOpen licenses you automatically get upgrades to Vista, and Windows 7 for free.
I'm not sure how many laptops you have to install, but I usually get an eOpen license from Microsoft.
My nLited copy of XP will automatically wipe the HD, create one big partition, install a clean copy of XP without any prompts, and join the computers to a domain.  Once joined, they automatically have Symantec AV, Office 2007, Java, Flash, etc... installed.  The entire workstation is usually ready in about 45-60 minutes with no prompting.
In addition to the install of Windows itself you have two issues to resolve. One is the Windows licensing, which is messy to say the least, and I'm going to leave that entirely up to you.
If you thought a manual install of Windows on a few laptops was going to be slow, boring and time consuming, you're in for a real sad experience with some of those drivers. Install one and reboot. Install another and reboot. etc., etc., and that's after you are able to locate them at all. This is why recovery discs/partitions are so highly recommended.
The second is the hardware differences. You may run into some trouble here because Windows hardware support for laptops is downright pathetic. You might be lucky, but don't lay any bets on it. In many cases the only real hope you have is the laptop manufacturer's web site because too often generic drivers don't work very well, if at all, with laptops.
If the computers are joining a domain, you can also use group policy to automatically install needed software.