System PATH Variable, User PATH Variable, and the various keys within ..\App Paths.  I was able to confirm that Audacity does not create a key for itself when it's installed.
start winword does not tell the command prompt to launch winword.  It tells the command prompt to launch start with argument winword.  Start uses its own methods to find winword.  
While the other answers are likely to be the specific reason in your case, there is also another answer to your question which could have been the case for some other applications: in the same place you were looking, but with different file extensions.
You specifically said that you were searching for files with extension exe. Windows will also attempt to execute files of other extensions.
The reason winword.exe worked is that a registry key exists which defined the path to Microsoft Word (Winword.exe).  A similar key exists for Firefox.exe and Chrome.exe if those applications are installed.
Another environment variable that comes into play when executing a command is the variable PATHEXT. This is a ;-delimited list of file extensions to attempt to execute. If you echo PATHEXT you might see something like .COM;.EXE;.BAT;.CMD;.VBS;... (etc.). Some applications use these other file types as their end-user entry point. It is much less common, but it happens. I have used several major commercial products which start from .BAT scripts. To use one of them as an example, I can start it with the command standalone even though there is no standalone.exe... instead, it has a standalone.bat.
Some of the extensions I have on the PATHEXT I'm looking at right now I have never had an application use. Ones that I have run into much more commonly (but obviously not as much as exe) are: .com, .bat, .vbs, .js, .jar. The first two are windows batch script files, and the other three are file types for specific programming languages which are run from scripts or virtual machines instead of from exes (respectively: visual basic, javascript, and java).
Just winword tells the command prompt to launch winword.  And if you try that, since winword is not on the PATH, it doesn't launch.