I can't stress enough that you're trying to solve a management problem with technical means. That's a recipe for wasting time, wasting effort, and creating more problems than you'll "solve". Unless you do something very drastic like Software Restriction Policies in Disallowed mode (and strip the user's Administrator rights) you won't really get anywhere. If you do go to such drastic measures you'll end up spending vastly more time and money than would be spent if management would just "man up" (or "woman up", as the case may be) and do their job.
Obviously, being a "deny all, permit explicit" architecture means more work setting it up, but the "win" is that it really can keep almost all unwanted software from working on a computer (even software that "lives" in folders the user has rights to write to-- a trick that Google Chrome does, for example).
PSKILL from sysinternals will allow you to remotely kill processes.  You can setup a .cmd on your system and put it in the task scheduler to execute every 5, 10, or 15 minutes.
I'll weigh in with an answer, but I'll echo what's been said in the comments, too. This is a horrible idea. You have a management problem, not a technical problem. While I understand that your "bosses" are asking you to solve their problem for them I'd argue that you need to let them know that there isn't a technical solution to this problem.
If management won't take care of this as they should, then tell them that yes, you can take care of it, but not in a half-assed way like restricting when they can play games.  Tip-toeing around the problem isn't gonna help in the long run.
The Microsoft solution for what you're looking at is Software Restriction Policies. You can define various criteria to allow / disallow program execution.
Running in its "allow everything, block exceptions" mode (called "Unrestricted mode" by Microsoft) won't help. Users can rename files or copy them with a byte of garbage appended at the end to throw off the cryptographic hash. 
I'd delete or rename the executable.  If it's minesweeper or hearts or something like that, you should be done.  If it's a game they installed themselves, remind them sometime that they shouldn't install their own software on company computers.  Remove their admin access if necessary.
In "Disallowed mode", where only explicitly allowed programs or paths are permitted to run, Software Restriction Policy really has teeth. (With the caveat that if the users have "Administrator" rights then your attempts at stopping them will be toothless, no matter how you configure it.) With a non-Administrator user and some well-define paths in "Disallowed mode" (paths where the user can't write files) you can do a wonderful job of making Windows XP prevent unauthorized software from running.
But... If you must, this would be a good place to use Sysinternal's PsTools.  You could use PsList to show running processes on the remote box, and PsKill to remotely kill the game process(es).