You could probably make a cheap AAA console title for $2 or $3 million, but that would be with quite a small team using existing technology. Anything content-rich would require more artists and/or designers and hence cost more. Most of the money goes on salaries, in any case.
If you have a particular kind of game in mind, find some similar games (same genre, comparable production values) and you can probably research all three of the above things for a similar title.
Game development costs are something developers tend to keep pretty close to the vest, so it can be difficult to find examples.
Nintendo's Reggie Fils-Aime is quoted as saying costs can be $20 million up to a staggering $50 million with sales of 1.3 to 1.5 million units to make money.
If you want to include publisher costs (manufacturing, distribution, advertising), ballpark that as equal to the dev cost, so multiply your figure by 2 to get the final total cost of a game.
In 2009, Ubisoft CEO Yves Guillemot is quoted as saying the cost for creating a major title for PS3 or Xbox 360 is typically between $20 million and $30 million.
1) How many people on the team? A small team is around 20-30 people, large team would be several hundred. Look at the credits of a few games you own (either on the Credits screen from main menu if there is one, or in the back of the instruction book... or just check www.mobygames.com).
What about other "operations" costs (office space, computer hardware and software, electricity, payroll services, etc.)? Ballpark, estimate those as 25% of the total dev cost, with payroll being the other 75%. So multiply the above figure by an extra 4/3 to get the final dev cost estimate.
Hint: next time you hear someone complain about how video games are so expensive because they cost $60, remind them that the little package in their hand cost a lot more than $60 to develop :)
Interestingly also on the list are some old games, like Dragon's Lair, costing $1.3 million in 1883.
Then, multiply: size of team (number of people) X length of development (years) X average annual developer salary ($/year). That gives you the baseline development cost in payroll.
It varies widely. Ballpark is 8 figures for a big-budget ("AAA") title these days... i.e. 10 to 100 Million (US $). But a lot depends on how you count, and there are tons of exceptions.
3) Where was it developed? Games made in San Francisco are going to cost more in payroll than those made in Denver. Look up the IGDA Salary Survey, adjust for cost-of-living of the area, and cut it by a small amount because the Salary Survey is slightly inflated.