If you are hosting only the website and not DNS for the clients, then the clients will have to update their DNS records, wherever they are hosted. For subdomains, this could be avoided, if the customer was using a CNAME record. The CNAME record has a tiny additional overhead to look up, but that is rarely significant. A CNAME record could be used for www.example.com, but it would not work for example.com itself, since it would have to be the only record, and example.com would have a NS record and possibly MX record as well.
If you were hosting DNS for your customers as well, they could have their NS records point to names inside your own domain. That way they don't need any glue, and their domain will have no IP addresses other than on the DNS servers you host for them. As with the CNAME records, this has a tiny additional overhead.
I have a client that created over 600+ websites whose DNS records point to an actual IP address and not name servers. They are looking to move from their current host and do not want to lose their IP address. If the IP address has to be changed, then it would need to be changed in the DNS records of all 600+ sites. 
Your assumption that pointing a "nameserver" for a domain to an IP address is correct. Porting the IP over while "possible" does not sound like you meet the requirements to achieve this.
You need to do this in stages. The first of which is getting the nameserver for each domain pointed to a DNS record which resolves to the same IP address they use today. There should be no impact for doing this. Then you'll stand up a new DNS server that will deliver the same responses, and update the DNS record from the old server to the new. You'll just have to be diligent and trust in the data you do have, thats all you can do.
Any approach you take to moving would require a transition period where you are using one IP at the current hosting provider and one IP at the new hosting provider.
First of all, you cannot bring the IP address along as you move to another hosting provider. IP addresses can only be moved between hosting providers, if you have a block of addresses, which was large enough to be announced over BGP.
This approach however does require you to host their entire DNS zone, and you would have to be hosting it at two or more different hosting providers to provide high availability.