First of all, I would start with splitting this into 2 issues. IMAP is handles by Dovecot. If you are able to receive your messages from the server, then Dovecot isn't the issue, it is doing its job.
Are you sure you have an SMTP mailer running, i.e. telnet into your mail server on port 25 and get a response? 
Odds are very good that I've screwed up something in the Postfix or Dovecot configuration (SSL / TLS?  SASL?)  I'd like to trouble-shoot this without guessing endlessly.  So, please:
The server's syslog shows a successful imap-login, but none of the logs (remote or client) seem to have any information about the failure to send the message.
Also, you need to be clear on whether there are problems with local or external mail delivery. If it is local delivery, you need to check how this is done by postfix. A common way would be to pipe local mail delivery over to procmail but it is also possible to pipe it over to dovecot and you need to make sure that the piping is working correctly. Check the logs.
I am setting up an email server with Postfix and Dovecot.  Remote email clients can read email, but cannot reply to it or send new messages.  (Email clients local to the server receive and send email just fine.)  For example, Alpine tries until told to give up, when it says "Error sending: SMTP greeting failure 421 SMTP connection went away".
You can pretend to be a client by reading the relevant RFC (particularly around section 4) and pretending to be a mail client. Turn off all SSL/TLS configurations first to see if you are able to send mail properly. Then, turn them on and use telnet-ssl or openssl client to connect to the SSL ports instead.
To me, that suggests a problem on the server b/w Dovecot and Postfix.  But I can't figure out how to diagnose it.
Is there a way to emulate the Dovecot / Postix interaction, and / or the remote client / IMAP server connection, so I can see if these are proceeding as required?
Sending the mail is done with Postfix. You said "mail clients local to the server receive and send email just fine." - this indicated to me that your mail clients may not be authenticating to the Postfix server on port 25, or it is not listening on your external interfaces on port 25. As Bart mentioned, try to telnet to port 25 and see if you get the Postfix banner. If you do, make sure your clients are authenticating (and you've set up Postfix to allow authentication) so that they can send mail through your server.