I hadn't changed any drivers in my laptop and when it started doing that, I uninstalled my wi-fi drivers and installed older ones. What do you guys think about the issue? Have you ever encountered something like that? Any ideas what could fix it except for reinstalling the OS? Thanks!
The problem is caused by the two WiFi antennas moving around ever so slightly on the adapter. They are taped down by the manufacturers, but (in my case) by removing the tape to remove the AC board the tape probably didn't stick as well. Maybe in your case the tape wore out and came loose.
To temporarily fix the issue, I need to disable and then enable the wireless adapter again, or reboot the laptop. As you can imagine, it can get very annoying very fast. I've been using a USB wi-fi since to be able to normally work. However, before sending it to RMA, I decided to boot up one of my old Linux live CDs (Linux Mint 10) to see if it acts weird, too (then I could say for sure it's a hardware fault). The thing is, it doesn't! I literally can't make it lose connection now.
By taping the WiFi antennas down properly I can now shake my laptop around and it won't disconnect anymore. Moving my legs underneath it when having it on my lap would disconnect it before that. It might be due to the screen moving back and forth a bit, pulling on the antennas.
Recently I've started encountering a weird bug in my Windows 7 x64. I have an Asus N53SV with an Intel Centrino Wireless-N 1000. When I physically move the laptop, eg. move it to another room or just nudge it a little bit when it is sitting on my lap, it loses signal. I still see 5 signal bars on my taskbar, but I lose Internet connection and when I click the icon in my taskbar, I only see the hotspot I'm currently connected too (normally I see ~24 hotspots around my house). Soon after, an orange triangle with an exclamation mark shows up on the icon saying that I have limited connection.
I've had the same problem with the same laptop for a while and I tried many things to fix it. Ranging from trying old drivers to a completely new Windows installation. My problems started after I had to replace my AC board (which was broken). 