On a side note, I notice you haven't gotten an answer to these questions yet at the Sorenson Media forums.  If you paid $800 for this software (because that's what it costs, roughly), why haven't you contacted Sorenson Media directly for an answer to these questions?  You paid for the support... they don't offer direct support to people who haven't paid for the software.  I also got a majority of this information from Videohelp.com where I also see you posted and asked these questions... and you were quite specific about not wanting to have explanations about what these settings meant... you just wanted to be told the numbers to set these things at to get the best possible quality.  You were also informed that it really wasn't possible to just give you numbers without explanations, since the numbers you want vary for the media that is to be encoded, and you provided no specifics on the media.  
Now... Decoded Picture Buffer is a computed value.  YOU must compute the value based on specifics in your media.  Here...
So, an increase in IDR will increase CPU usage during playback.  How many IDR frames you want is up to you.  It's more about maintaining quality than improving quality, as every time you completely refresh the video frame you are increasing the amount of data in the frame.  A ton of IDR would necessarily mean a larger video filesize after encoding.
So, as you can see, no one can give you the value you should use for Decoded Picture Buffer, as no one knows the specifics of your media that you are encoding.
So... depending on how much CPU you want to dedicate to playing back this video, the higher the better... all things considered.  I mean 5 should be great, you might even try a little more with 6 or 7 (unless it's a cartoon as noted).  Just remember, the load on the CPU during playback with 5 or so should be noticeable.
Plus for some people with a powerful processor and with no intention of ever playing their encoded work on another machine, they would choose one set of settings.  However, their encoded project would play like total garbage on someone else's machine.  You said nothing about your intentions here.  But as I pointed out, a couple of guys at Videohelp.com mentioned to you that you really need to TRY and UNDERSTAND these settings, so you can find the settings that work best for you.