I automate these kinds of things.  Rather than writing documentation, write a well-commented (a la literate programming) script that does the detection and diagnosis (and, where possible, the resolution) of faults.  If you know enough about the problem to be able to write down exactly how to find it and fix it, you know enough to be able to script the solution (if you don't know how to script, then you need to learn).
I know I could accomplish what I want using flowcharts, but I'd like to do something similar to a "Choose Your Own Adventure" style.  I think this is pretty much the same as what support call centers seem to do.
I did a lot of this stuff for project planning and management.  As EricJLN mentioned, Freemind is an awesome free application that is a mind mapping tool that is great for doing easy flow charting.
this tools lets you create something similar to flowcharts, but you can easily add references to additional resources. might be helpful to reference to other docs, scripts or ... so the conceptmaps could be used as a starting point. for advanced users it will give a rough way (the details could be solved individually) and for not so experienced users it could reference to additional info how to do things.
We troubleshoot a lot of server and network issues and follow a loose set of steps on what to do in different cases.  With more and more people and responsibility, the need for standardization is needed so we don't miss something.
Depending on what you are doing the planning for, I have never really found the flow chart helpful in much more than an overview to follow for different things.  Ultimately I find myself going into more depth and detail in robust documentation and using flow charts for a kind of index.
Are there any tools to make creating such documentation easier?  I'm looking for a web based approach if possible.
If there is something that truly cannot be checked via a program (say, you want to check if there's an aircon problem but it's a system that isn't instrumented into your management network) the script prompts the person running it and tells them exactly how to find the answer ("check the panel marked "aircon master" nearest the door of the server room, press the "fan" button twice and read the number shown under "temperature".  Type that number in below, exactly as you read it (eg "27.5")").