So my idea is to have a single iTerm tab with a tmux session opened with multiple tabs. To do the transition I have a basic feature I need to configure on tmux: switch the the tab 'n' by using cmd + n (like Firefox, Chrome, iTerm2 itself, etc)
However I can't find a way of mapping the cmd key on the mac keyboard. I first tried to implement cmd as a prefix key, with no success. I've tried setting
That way, when you press Cmd-D to split the screen iTerm2 will split the tab for you. This is great, because the split is native, so you can drag the edge in the middle to re-adjust widths, or you can select a pane by clicking. Ditto for new tabs/windows (but the shortcuts are slightly different -- otherwise you'd have no way to add non-tmux tabs).
Now just type in prefix-p into the input box where prefix is whatever you have set for tmux (I use cntrl-a so the box displays \001p). Note that if you make a mistake, delete characters will be inserted instead of actually deleting characters, so hit the "Delete one character" button to move backwards, in case you mess up.
Go into Preferences > Settings and click on the "Keyboard" tab. Now you need to add a new keyboard shortcut by clicking on the plus icon below the box. Now you want to set a key combo that "Sends string to shell."
but nothing works. Is this possible? I don't really need to bind the prefix to cmd, but I want to be able to change tmux tabs with cmd+n. 
You might also look at this blog post that has very detailed explanations about tmux/iterm integration:
You can also modify cntrl-anything and shift-anything, but do remember that these could interfere with your $EDITOR or other programs, so be careful about what special functions might be rendered useless.
You may also want to consider the native (but very experimental) integration that iTerm2 offers with tmux:
Special shortcuts can be made with Terminal.app. I just found out the other day, but this may have been possible prior to lion. 
I'm used to iTerm2 (or Terminal.app for this case) on OS X. But I want to move to use tmux (or screen, but the problem is similar to both apps).