I use these 3 slides to show why it so hard (impossible?) to come up with a fast algorithm for an NP problem:
One of the main things people use computers for is searching.  Programs like Google are even called "search engines," and they are used millions of times a day.  A computer recently beat the humans on Jeopardy because it was able to search through tons of data, super fast.
But dear what if I tell you all the board positions and ask you is it a checkmate? Surely you will be able to quickly tell within few examinations whether there are any legal moves left for the king. 
winning strategies for various classic board games eg battleship or (more recently) video games have been proven NP complete & this is an excellent way/angle to present/describe some of the core theory to newbies.
So such problems which are hard to solve but if their solution is easily verifiable in few simple steps, they are called NP problems. 
The only two numbers multiplied together that equal 23 are 1 and 23 itself.  That took some thinking, didn't it?  And 23 is a small number.  Think if the number were hundreds of digits long.  And the thing is, the best programs in the world can't reverse multiplication much better than a 7-year-old might try to, just testing one number, and then the next, and then the next.  Computers can do it faster, but we don't really know how to tell a computer to do it smarter.  People get PhD's in this stuff, and they only know how to tell computers to do reverse multiplication a little bit smarter.
On the ohter hand, last night on our chest game, what would be the best strategy to win the game? We could move the first pawn one step, or the second pawn one step, or we could move second pawn two steps and first pawn one step so you see there are lots and lots of possibilities. But is there a way for us or a recipie that gives us a complete ordered sets of moves that yield a best and to a checkmate? So you see it is quit hard because there are so many possibilites one each step. Billions and Billions as Carl Sagan says.
You know we face many problems in our life. You can say challenges. Some are hard some are easier. For example, you often need to add two numbers. And last evening, we were on the chess board and we had to win against our neighbour. Well, adding two numbers is a simple and straight problem with limited steps involved. Such problems are called P class problems because there are many many problems that are pretty straightforward with discrete steps that are to be repeated over and over to get a solution.
minesweeper is NP complete FAQ by mathematician RW Kaye. Spring 2000 issue of the Mathematical Intelligencer (volume 22 number 2, pages 9--15)
So maybe there is no smarter way.  But maybe there is, and we just haven't found it yet.  That's the P/NP problem in a nutshell: if I can recognize an answer right away -- 1 times 23 is 23, duh -- does that help me search for the answer faster?  People think it's so important that the person who figures out the answer, yes or no, will win a million dollars.
But some things are hard for even computers to search.  Sounds weird, doesn't it?  One example is reverse multiplication.  Of course if I say "What's 5 times 3?" you can say "15" in a nanosecond, whooosh!  But what's the answer to, "What two numbers mutliplied together equal 21?"  (Wait for the answer, 7 x 3.)  Right!  Now, what two numbers multiplied together equal 23?  (Wait for the answer, or for frustration.)
Gaming is a hard job, but someone has to do it! arxiv paper by Giovanni Viglietta. analyzes computational complexity of Pac-Man, Tron, Lode Runner, Boulder Dash, Deflektor, Mindbender, Pipe Mania, Skweek, Prince of Persia, Lemmings, Doom, Puzzle Bobble 3, and Starcraft.
Now you ask what P = NP means? Actually this question means that is there a way that we can find a simpleler solutuion for finding the best strategy or ordered list of moves for a chess game without going through all the billions of possibilities just like we do for a simple addition? This simple quesiton is yet unanswered. We have neither any proof for it's truth or for rejection but if we do, it will be breakthrough. If it comes out to be true, our civilization might get to solve very complex probelms by turning them into P class problems. People will be able to break passwords wihtin seconds, messages will be decrypted and much much more and that is why this problem is considered to be one of the most important probelms of the millenium. 