However, this is not fool proof: it does not make you anonymous, it will not hide your IP or the torrents you are downloading from everyone. Given enough determination, your ISP can still identify your BitTorrent traffic (as explained here).
I don't know of any BitTorrent clients that can stream their data over the Tor network, so by default it will not work. Also, BitTorrent over Tor isn't a good idea.
To be clear: there is no relationship between Tor and BitTorrent, despite the similarity in their names.
Since you are not the only one whose BitTorrent traffic is monitored, throttled, inhibited or blocked, most BitTorrent clients (including µTorrent) allow you to encrypt the protocol header:
But these references (and this article on InfoWorld) say that they aren’t supposed to cut off your Internet access altogether, or at least not right away, and there is supposed to be appeal process (they call it a “challenge” process), so I don’t understand why the ISP would refuse to listen to your explanation.  (Did they happen to mention a $35 fee?)  Good luck!
Since you are apparently using BitTorrent to download and upload stuff with the copyright holder's permission, it's unlikely that they actually marked these torrents as illegal. Instead, they can probably see that your incoming and outgoing traffic uses the BitTorrent protocol, and based on that fact only they claim you have been downloading illegal content1.
You should look into your ISP's terms of use: are you allowed to use the BitTorrent protocol on their network?
It really doesn't matter if you use a proxy service like Tor or a VPN. All traffic still needs to go through your ISP at some point. If you're using a VPN, your ISP has to forward the packets to the VPN that you're sending, or in the other direction.
1) The content is (probably) not illegal, the Torrent files or magnet links are also not illegal. Instead, it is one's actions that would illegal (distributing copyrighted content without explicit consent from the copyright holders).
ISP's send warnings AFTER they have received complaints from the copyright owners of whatever it may be you are downloading.  As far as I know, your ISP doesn't care or doesn't have the resources to monitor all of your traffic.  At least, this is how it works with my ISP.  You receive an email that describes who the complainant is, and the consequences of future ongoing complaints.  Maybe because your ISP is your university, they have some way of monitoring everything you download, but I would think they would just block access to the torrent sites in the first place if they didn't want you to engage in file-sharing....whole thing sounds odd.  Funny that a university would be so keen on restricting access to information.
As far as my knowledge goes, there really isn't a good way to hide from your ISP. I would go with what @Deltik was saying and make sure it is not a virus. If it really is your ISP I would look up their policy and see if they are allowed to monitor your traffic, or see if there is an ISP that respects privacy a bit more. 
I cannot answer your explicit question about the “magnet link”, but I may be able to shed some light on the general, implied question.  There’s something new called the “Copyright Alert System (CAS)”, wherein ISPs are taking a proactive role in deterring piracy.  See articles on Bloomberg Businessweek, the BBC, Wikipedia, and Ars Technica. 
If you aren't doing anything illegal, you could also try emailing them back and telling them you are not doing anything illegal, it's inappropriate to see torrent usage and assume piracy. Lots of small businesses use torrents to minimize the cost of hosting files. Lots of open-source initiatives push you to use torrents to download their stuff.