I really like unix way and linux in particular(in fact, I user Ubuntu on my PC to manage the network). But if you have a small all-windows network, then Windows server is your best choice. The price is not that bad either - you will probably spend more in terms of time figuring out how to setup SAMBA(which is definitely not the most enjoyable OSS to work with)
If you want to both spend a lot of money, and have problems integrating it with your Windows environment, use Snow Lepoard Server. duck
If you are looking to save money, you can install Ubuntu server. There are replacements for just about any of the services you are looking at, but they all require tweaking and don't 'just work'. Expect to spend a lot of time configuring it, but once it is set up it should be rock solid. I run a lot of Ubuntu servers, but not for a Windows network. 
In my opinion, Windows Small Business Server is going to be the easiest to set up and integrate into your environment. If you think Windows Server is hard to set up, just wait till you see the "gotchas" with an Ubuntu or Apple server. If you have the money just bite the bullet and go with this option. Windows Server + Exchange will get you the features you are looking for with the least amount of headaches. It isn't cheap, but it is the easiest to set up.
Also, you may want to consider going the SaaS route. Google Apps or Hosted Exchange would get you all of the same services without the overhead of running a server. You avoid the large up-front and ongoing maintenance of an in-house solution. Evaluate the hardware and licensing costs for Windows and match it up with the per/month cost of a hosted solution. 
Recently I read this article in LinuxMagazine.com, which describes a special linux distro (ClearOS) exactly for this role. I did not try it yet, but the article was very well written, and may give you an option to consider.
Go for ubuntu server. As you are small office, it will suit you . Even if you grow you dont have to worry about spending more money on server 
This is a very subjective question. You'll get many different answers on this, from different points of view and no single one is 'right'. It all depends on your goals, knowledge and budget.