Get some insulating (looks like sponge with hills and valleys) material and put it inside the case. Works better than any cpu replacement. Cheaper too.
Not to go to far off, but what is your budget? You can get some impressive fans (or better yet, huge passive heat sinks with heatpipes to lead to a 120mm case fan) but they'll cost you - I'd guess the project would run about $150. And after that the other fans might need replacing, or the addition of some sound absorbing material. Before you start anything you might want to get a can of compressed air and clean the whole thing out, then run it for a few hours to get the fans broken back in (without all the dust on them).
They also have a list of recommended heatsinks, but I've found that you need to do more of your own research in this area, simply because there are so many brands and models to choose from for any given socket.  I generally look through all the cheap, well-rated tower heatsinks with copper heatpipes and aluminum plates.  This Newegg SERP may be relevant.
Normally one of the smaller Xigmatek models is an practical if unassuming choice, but being on socket 754 is somewhat limiting.  A more traditional model, with the fan blowing down, may be fine since your cooling needs aren't incredibly high.  The Thermaltake A4017-01 looks particularly cheap, quiet, and well-rated, and it's AMD-only, which may ease installation.
If your really into it, you can get hard driver coolers that insulate noise and disperse heat better.  And you can use rubber insulated screws on the hard drive and optical drive mounts to reduce vibration transfer.
SilentPCReview, which Strop mentioned above, maintains an occasionally-updated list of their recommended case fans.  Obviously you can only do so much with 80 mm fans.
Along with everything that has been said.  Look at slient or near silent power supplies.  It is the one area that many forget about. They do make silent power supplies. Small cpu fans also produce a lot of the noise too. Look at the air movement (cfm's) and the noise rating (db) of cpu fans before purchase.
An alternative would be to buy a whole new PC, like an EEE Box ($290, or $300 with wireless and gigabyte ethernet). These use very little power, are tiny, and reasonably quiet. Other Atom based solutions would fit into the same ballpark, costing $250-$400 dollars.