Yes, layer-3 devices, like routers, strip off the layer-2 frame to forward the packet. That is necessary because the layer-3 device must build a new frame for the next interface, which could be a completely different protocol that uses different addressing, or no addressing at all. Even if the next interface is ethernet, the frame on the first LAN has no use on the second LAN because the MAC addresses do not exist on the second LAN.
I can't see how it could be achieved, but I don't know everything. Just because I can't think of a way to do it, doesn't necessarily mean it can't be done somehow.
Switches are transparent devices that do not alter the layer-2 frames in any way (except adding or removing VLAN tags on trunk links), and ethernet has nothing like a TTL field.
Layer 2 information is stripped off and thrown away at every layer 3 ingress interface. A completely new layer 2 header is added on the outgoing interface. You're asking a router to do something completely different.  
After all Layer 3 packets are encapsulated in layer 2 frames, perhaps there's a way to retain the Layer 2 headers in the opposite direction, instead of being stripped by the router somehow?
Traceroute works because layer-3 packet have a TTL that gets reduced by a router, and the router is supposed to send back an ICMP message when the TTL expires. Traceroute sends a packet with a TTL of 1, so the first router expires the TTL and sends back an ICMP message, then traceroute sends a packet with a TTL of 2, so the second router expires the TTL and sends back a message, etc.
So, it goes: Desktop→Router→Switch, and I want to check the MAC of the Switch. Layer 2 & 3 information all the way to 8.8.8.8 would be nice, if possible, but I don't like my chances.
I understand the difference between layer2 & layer3 and MAC & IP. I understand address resolution protocol, etc. But is there any way to do a traceroute that will show Layer 2 information? For instance, I'd like to discover the MAC address of the nearest switch on the far side of a router.
Remember that the whole world is not ethernet. In fact, there are more devices being shipped with Wi-Fi interfaces than with ethernet interfaces.