This procedure is simple to perform, but it prevents both NAT and Host Only networking from functioning in any virtual machine. Only Bridged networking is available. If neither NAT nor Host only networking is required, this is the simplest and most permanent procedure.
In some cases, the installation of a VMware product to a computer with a Microsoft Vista or 2008 operating system prevents all inbound networking traffic from reaching the computer. This is caused by the Windows Firewall assigning the VMware virtual NICs to the Public network.
But I am sure now that VMWare on windows 7 connects far away from the Kernel of the Windows, that add space for firewalls to act
Note: Modifying the access rules for the Public network will affect all NICs that belong to the Public network.
This procedure is permanent and allows for the continued use of Bridged, NAT, and Host Only networking. However, doing this causes the VMware virtual NICs to disappear from the Network and Sharing Center, even though they remain visible under Network Connections. This also causes the VMware virtual NICs to be exempt from all Windows Firewall access rules. When implemented, the control of virtual machine network access must be done from the guest operating system of each virtual machine. This bypasses the default security model of Windows Vista with respect to the the VMware virtual NICs, and the implications of using this procedure must be carefully considered.
Inbound networking traffic can be re-enabled by performing one of four corrective procedures.  Which procedure is performed depends on your environment and business requirements.  Each corrective procedure below has a summary of reasons for and against its use.
This procedure is simple to perform and has the least impact on both the Windows Vista or 2008 operating system and the VMware product in use. However, after any reboot of the operating system the NICs are moved back to the Public network again. Using this procedure requires supervision of the operating system to ensure that it is performed after every reboot.
This procedure requires extensive knowledge of the Windows Vista or 2008 operating system and its implementation of the Windows Firewall. Doing this ensures a permanent solution resulting in no unexpected behaviour in either the Windows operating system or the VMware product in use. Any description of the tasks required are beyond the scope of this article. For more information, refer to Windows operating system documentation.
This article describes how to re-establish inbound network traffic to a computer with a Microsoft Vista or 2008 operating system that used to receive this traffic but suddenly stopped after a VMware product was installed.
Troubleshooting blocked inbound network traffic on Windows Vista or 2008 after installing a VMware product
http://kb.vmware.com/selfservice/microsites/search.do?language=en_US&cmd=displayKC&externalId=1004813