For sales or other departments whom have a need to access personal documents setup their home folders in ADUC user properties panel to map to a drive letter and path of the user ie. \fileserver\users\%profilename% and permissions will automatically be created to restrict other users for complaince and privacy reasons.
An aside: The "Desktop" folder is a BIG problem. Users love to save gigs and gigs of crap onto the desktop folder. If you redirect it and use Offline Files all the desktop icons disappear when an Offline Files sync runs under Windows XP. The user has to right-click / Refresh (or press F5 with the desktop window active) to get the icons back. It's a dumb misfeature that's been in every release of Windows XP and it'll probably never be fixed. On one hand, I think that a redirected "Desktop" is the "right thing" because it protects the user's data, but on the other hand it works poorly. You need to decide what's right for you.
Offline Files in Windows XP gets very "pear shaped" when the user's "My Documents" directory grows over 2GB. Offline Files in Windows Vista and Windows 7 is a lot better for this.
When using Offline Files, just remember that certain files are not cached or synced ( db sort of files).  Most notable of them would probably be .pst (outlook) files.  Here is a technet article on this.  Just mentioning this because others have references offline files, and not knowing this can bite you in the butt in the case of backups :-)
You'll also want to encrypt the Offline Files cache, so read up on using EFS and, specifically, on getting recovery agent keys removed from the client computers.
The offline folders feature of Windows XP/Vista Pro/Business will keep things synced.  Depending on how much data is changed offline, the time to sync will increase (obviously) but it does not occur "at logon" but rather after the user logs on in the background.  This will solve your issues of users having offline and remote access to their files as well as how to sync them back when they're back in the office.
My recommendations are to suggest deploying 'My Documents' 'Desktop' in addition to Implementing Roaming Profiles.
We've had great luck with using Offline Files to provide access to redirected "My Documents" folders in just the scenario you describe.
Another option might be to you tortoise SVN if you want a more manual approach to the document management.  They can keep their copies offline and check them in as needed, you don't really need to be to technically gifted to use it. 
When the users come back into the office and reconnect to the LAN logon will not be substantially affected unless they haven't been synchronizing their Offline Files while connected to the VPN (and even then, it shouldn't be too bad-- how much data are they making?).
As another alternative for document sharing with security, Sharepoint even the free WSS is a great resource.
Getting synchronization of those files when the user is connected to the VPN is a bit of a pain (such that a backup can hit those files) because the user will need to be sure that such a synchronization is occurring. Any type of "background" synchronization functionality has proven to be problematic, at best, for us. (Users complain that connectvity is slow, syncs don't happen when they should, etc.) We've resorted to having the users manually initiate Offline Files synchronizations when they are on the VPN.