The best/simplest design over time is one where all of the end hosts in a given subnet have a single common default gateway.  This single logical gateway might actually be constituted by multiple physical devices but from the point of view of any device on that subnet (workstation, server, printer, etc) it has a single path out.
I think that this would work, but im being told it will not from some co-workers. I currently have a 192.168.10.x network in our office and the gateway is 192.168.10.1. I want to create another gateway at 192.168.10.2 and put it on the firewall in the datacenter. Then, I will connect the AT&T line from a switch in our office to that new gateways port on the datacenter firewall.
We recently got a new AT&T ASE(MPLS) line to connect our datacenter with our main office. We have a WAN connection at our datacenter and a WAN connection at the office. I want to setup 2 gateways on the same subnet so that I can control the internal traffic headed to the internet. Eventually, I want to remove the WAN connection & gateway in the office and have all WAN traffic leave through the datacenter. 
Considering all of the VLANs and tagged properly and the networks are healthy, is there any reason this would not work? We have a separate subnet for the datacenter so that is why I wanted to put the new gateway on the firewall so the different VLANs could talk to each other properly. 
The next point is that the device(s) hosting that gateway is/are the place(s) where choices between multiple outbound paths can be made.  Put another way - let the router be the place where, well, routing happens.  The other point that falls out of this is that in such a design there's really no reason to be bridging subnets between sites.  Your router(s) can host multiple end-user subnets while also connecting to either your routers at other sites (..also hosting their own subnets) or to outbound connectivity.  
My plan was to set some systems to use 192.168.10.2 as their gateway so their connection would leave via the datacenter WAN. I could keep some people on the 192.168.10.1 gateway and they would get internet from our office line. This seems to make good sense so im not sure why im being told this won't work. 