There are two reasons why granting everyone access to the share doesn't work as you expect.  First is that although you have granted everyone access through the share, the NTFS file permissions are also checked, and they normally grant the Users group access, not everyone.  Second is that by default, everyone means all authenticated users.  There is an option under "Security Options" (Start -> Run, secpol.msc, then find security options on the left), for "Let everyone permissions apply to anonymous users" that allows you to change that.
EDIT: Okay, that isn't a very useful guide, just lots of information on simple file sharing.  From what I can gather, on XP home, file sharing will always use the guest account.  On Pro you can change the option below, or you can change to always use guest the same as home.  The option is in the same place as below.
I recommend option 2; the password is stored encrypted in the user registry, and isn't exposed.  As a side benefit, it's pretty easy to do.
Generally, Windows networking requires authorization, and passwords are the most common way to do that.  You could try to clear the password for the account being used for access, but this isn't very secure.
here has a good guide on setting up file sharing and the various options you have.  The best way is to have a matching account/password on both machines.  The guide shows how to use the guest account to allow access for everyone.  
Bear in mind that if you change everyone, or use guest, it means that EVERYONE can access that share.  the XP firewall will by default, only allow PC's on your LAN access to shares, I don't know what other firewalls will do.
I recommend leaving the password active, but have your friend map the share he's accessing.  There are two ways to do this:
XP Pro has a default restriction that means a user account with no password can not be used for network access, it can be changed, again in the mmc snapin mentioned below.  I don't know if home enforces the same restriction, if it does then I fear you are stuck with it.  This restriction may mean that even the guest account requires a password to be entered.