You said you are using Drupal. Do you have any sort of Drupal modules installed? I doubt that a stable version of Drupal has memory leaks in the core, so problems are most likely to occur in modules and other 3rd party add-ons and customizations. 
One thing I suggest you try is switching to apache + mod_php. If that works without leaking memory, then that means your problem was CGI related. If it continues to leak with mod_php, then there is probably a memory leak in the code somewhere. 
What I've done so far is set PHP_FCGI_MAX_REQUESTS to a low value so that php-cgi processes are recycled quickly. When I use ab to simulate high load, this works very well. Processes die quickly before they grow higher than 10MB. However, under low-to-medium load, all processes grow steadily (because of load balancing) and most of them consume 28MB+ simultaneously, putting my VPS at risk of swapping. Please note than even without any sort of traffic, the processes grow steadily.
The VPS has 360MB RAM. I'm using Debian Lenny 32bit and its lighttpd and php5-cgi packages. Apart from some config changes (listed below), I'm using the stock setup by Debian.
I'm trying to set up a web server on a VPS. My problem is that memory usage of php-cgi processes increases over time even though the website is not receiving any traffic at all. (it is behind a firewall for the time being)
I can reduce the number of php-cgi processes, but this feels like a workaround more than a fix. I'd be surprised if php-cgi normally grew like this.
xcache.size is set to 24M. It used to be 32M but reducing it didn't help. xcache.var_size is set to 0. The remaining plugins are using the stock configuration. The xcache admin pages shows that xcache is using less than 1MB.
Remove unused libraries from /etc/php5/apache2/conf.d. Probably you don't need pdo.ini and pdo_mysq.ini or mysqli.ini This will save few Mega of Ram
Searching for known memory leaking bugs didn't yield anything relevant. And I'd be surprised if the default Debian packages/config had such an obvious memory leak. Other users on the same host do not have this problem.
The website is based on Drupal. Using Drupal's devel module, I can tell that memory usage of PHP scripts is less than 20KB on average, and it never exceeds 8MB.
Setting the max requests is the right idea. That is the way to keep your system RAM from filling up when there is a memory leak. 