Even after properly turning on sharing and sharing a folder, Windows 7 computers sometimes need you to store the credentials in Control Panel/Users. Click on Credentials Manager, Windows Credentials and enter \Bro-Pc\ as the address, Bro as the user, and store the password. Log out then back in, and often it'll work.
I'm trying to connect to another PC on the same network so I can transfer files. I have been using the following tutorial http://windows.microsoft.com/en-gb/windows-vista/copy-files-to-another-computer. However, when I attempt to do so, it asks for a network username and password, and the domain is the name of my PC.
I don't know what "username" and "password" Windows is asking for. Neither of us are on a HomeGroup. Is this needed? When I made a HomeGroup, he joined it but it still asked for a username and password, and I couldn't even see his PC listed under my HomeGroup, so I removed the HomeGroup to start from scratch.
You don't have to do this, but it's good practice to create a separate account on the computer that you're sharing from; for example, if you're on COMPUTER1 trying to access files on COMPUTER2, you can create a user on COMPUTER2 called something like "shareuser", and, once the folder is shared with that user (or all users on the machine) and read or read/write access is given to the user, you can access the shared folder from COMPUTER1 as the username COMPUTER2\shareuser.
You will need to right-click on the folder you want to share and use the Share with... option.  Even though you have the username and password of the other computer, if the folder isn't shared, you won't have access to it.
My PC only has 1 user, and my brother's PC only has 1 user. I tried entering my brother's PC name and his username, and his password i.e. BRO-PC\Bro and he entered his password, but this won't let me access his PC's files. 
Also check under Control Panel\All Control Panel Items\Network and Sharing Center\Advanced sharing settings that file and printer sharing is turned on for the type of network you're on (Public, Home, etc).