Even in Western countries there are websites that get censored and which you might access freely by accessing them from another country. Chilling Effects provides many examples. Noteworthy is that certain far-right political content can't be found on Google if you use a German IP address. 
Proxy can be used for other usages too, but they are less popular. For example for cryptography studies, load balancing, remote access, etc.
Companies care about what information other companies have about them and usage of proxies is a way to reduce information leakage. 
Let's say you are a business A and want to buy item X from company B. There are 5 vendors who all sell item X but company B is the only one that offer feature P. For most business feature P isn't very important. For business B it's very important so the representative of business A spend a lot of time looking at the way feature P is described on the corporate web site of company B.
Those examples I gave don't require any access to the ISPs. If you are living in China but don't want that the Chinese government knows which websites you browse then a proxy provides you a useful tool. It allows you to circumvent the Chinese firewall and access all websites.
Proxy has been made to cache frequently visited sites at first. Then, it got many other usages. Here are two most important reasons people around the world use proxy now:
You can try to block cookies, UAs and referers in your browser, but there are more programs that use HTTP. Most of them won't let you tamper with such settings. That's where we can use a proxy:
On a more personal level, you might share a WLan with a neighbor and not want that neighbor to know that you look at porn websites. A proxy can help you.
Bypassing filters isn't the reason why proxies were invented. Basic advantage of using them is that they make you more anonymous. This is how you're connecting to websites when browsing without a proxy:
Apart from censorship of political speech there also straight commerical censorship. While China didn't censored the video "Ai Weiwei does Gangnam Style" because of political reasons the GEMA pushed Youtube in Germany to censor it because Google doesn't have an agreement with the about the right to Gangnam Style. 
It can be used to access region-locked services. For example, as US citizen, you can't stream videos from BigTVStreamProvider in Spain. However, if you "hide" behind proxy, you can in some way fool BigTVStreamProvider's server and gain access to it.
To give you an example, a while ago I wanted to find out who wrote a certain edit to a Wikipedia page. That edit wasn't made with a nickname so the IP address was public. By having access to the IP address I could see that the edit was made person who lives in the city in which a person I suspected to have written the edit lives.
The idea of using a proxy is about protecting information. If you don't care about the fact that people know which websites you access than a proxy might not help you.
In online gaming, proxy can be utilized to reduce latency. Sometimes, when you are playing online, game tries to hook you to the server which is not the optimal one for you (e.g. your "primary" server is too loaded and game re-routes you to secondary server which is not really the best one latency-wise for you).
If company B knows, that information can inform their negotiating position. They can ask for a higher price because they know that company A want Y and they are the only company with feature Y. 
If you get banned from a forum and try to register a proxy will make it harder to catch you in your attempt. 
I know a hacker who had a conversation with a journalist. When the journalist told the hacker that she visit his website he knew the time the journalist visited because the browser send enough information to the webserver to identify the company behind the web request. 
The journalist on the other hand wants to catch you off guard. If he thinks you are hiding some scandal he doesn't want you to have any information about the research process that the journalist used before the interview. 
If you are a huge company and some journalists wants to write a piece about your company than you have a huge interest in knowing which parts of your company the journalist cares about. 