With Lustre you have to have a special kernel on the servers, and I would only have the servers being servers and nothing else.
GlusterFS would seem like the ideal solution to me. To the guy who claims that Gluster takes lots of effort to set up I've got to say that he's probably never tried. As of Gluster 3.2 the configuration utilities are pretty awesome and it takes 2 or 3 commands to get a gluster volume up and sharing on the network. Mounting gluster volumes is equally simple.
I have a basic cloud running on Ubuntu Server (9.04) and Eucalyptus. Walrus (Eucalyptus' API compatable S3 implementation) stores files by on the cloud controller. However each of the other 4 server have 1TB storage which is largely unused. I am looking for a way to pool all the storage together in order to make use of all available resources. I have been loooking at various options including PVFS, Lustre, HDFS (Hadoop).
Are you still looking into HDFS? One of the Cloudera guys gave a talk at VelocityConf this year about Hadoop and HDFS focused on managing big data clusters, so he talked about HDFS quite a bit. The slides are pretty informative. I haven't worked with HDFS personally, but I talked with some random folks at Velocity that are using it on Ubuntu to do various data analysis.
My only requirments are that it need be scalable and that it runs well on Ubuntu. I would appreciate hearing from anyone who has experience with such technologies and I look forward to hearing your suggestions. 
Strangely the most sane answer much well be NFS. We have used NFS on Amazon's cloud. It may not scale as well as some file systems but the simplicity should not me overlooked. A single name space is probably not worth the effort it would take to implement.
There is an extension called HekaFS, which also adds SSL and more advanced Authentification mechanisms, which is probably interesting for cloud computing. 
On the plus side it also gives you a lot more flexibility than NFS. It does striping, relication, georeplication, is of course POSIX compliant and so on.