If however you are working under a hacked browser, that's a different matter. A hacked browser could be logging your data as you enter it and secretly send it through a hacked LittleSnitch purposely made to not inform you of this transmission.
HTTPS protects against man-in-the-middle attacks: if your man-in-the-middle is suspect software on your router or gateway, HTTPS is secure. However it does not and cannot protect against the HTTPS-using client machine itself being compromised.
Depends on what 'corrupted' is in your case. If the application has been modified and it (or whatever malware it was packaged with) is logging keys, they don't need to decrypt anything, they have your data in plain text. If the site is making a secure connection with a valid certificate you should be fine. They would need the certificate key to decrypt the data if it's only obtaining it from sniffing the wire after being sent.
If LittleSnitch (Just looked it up, seems to be a firewall), is corrupt, there is no reason it couldn't...
SSL makes it harder to intercept, but if you install any sort of local program, it can easily keylog your session and send that to whoever.
If suspect software is installed on your client machine, you have already lost. It could, for example, copy an RBN Certifying Authority into your user's list of web browser trusted CAs, allowing them to spoof any HTTPS site. Or it could log keypresses, or take pictures of the screen, quite independently of any functionality related to LittleSnitch.
A hacked version of your firewall (on this case, LittleSnitch) would not be enough for the personal data being transmitted through a HTTPS connection to be decoded. Sure, LittleSnitch could send it to anywhere the hacker made it go. But by the time the firewall captures the data that is being sent to the secure server, it has already been encrypted. Only with the correct certificate and installed on the correct server address, would the hacker be able to decrypt the data. This is one of the reasons why HTTPS is secure against middle-man attacks.
Any program can be hacked, cracked, or anything - If you don't trust it, don't run it... Don't buy into the MAC's are hacker/virus proof. If you run any sort of local "executable" or "script" it can do ANYTHING that you can - rewrite system files, intercept etc.