You can change the DirectX Runtime into debug mode in the "DirectX Control Panel". This should give you a lot of log-output about any issues there could be in your driver-calls or the data you are providing. You should try to fix every error/warning the runtime is logging, as it is totally driver-dependent how these problems are handled on specific graphcs-cards.
If you managed to hang the entire computer, not just your own process or any processes you were actively messing with, then this means a bug in Windows or a driver, as it should be impossible for user-mode code to cause this kind of system-wide hang. That doesn't mean that the bug isn't triggered by a bug in your own code- but your code might also be perfectly bug-free.
If this does not show anything suspicious you can try to get more info about what is happening with PIX. But I am pretty sure that the first step should give you the informations you need.
This leads me to believe this may be an Operating System or Driver issue, but it only occurs while playing the game (and only on some systems). What sort of operations might the operating system be doing that would require the kernel to pause all user threads and block. Some kind of I/O? At first I thought of paging but my impression is that would only affect a single process, no?
I am working on a Windows game and while rendering, some computers will experience intermittent pauses ("hitches" for lack of a better term). When profiled they appear in seemingly random places in the code. Eventually I noticed that it wasn't just my process that was affected, but (seemingly) every process on the system. All of the threads in my application hitch at once. The CPU utilization drops during these hitches and it appears as if most processes make no progress.
What you need to do is narrow down the issues- record the state of all threads at the time of a hitch. Also, you should verify that no external code is messing with your process. There's a specific Logitech Webcam, whose drivers will inject a DLL into all processes and it would damage several games that I know of, just for example. This kind of thing can damage your system from the outside in unknowable ways.
Some systems in use: Windows, DirectX (3d), nVidia cards (unknown if replicates on ATI), using overlapped io for streaming