As it just so happens, there have been recent development in the theory of dependent types, in which a types, which traditionally represent a static invariant for a computer program, can be interpreted to be a topological space, or rather an equivalence class of such spaces (a homotopy type).
On that theme, there's a long and deep connection between our ability to optimize certain functions on graphs and our ability to embed metric spaces in certain normed spaces. This is a vast literature now. 
Many lower bounds for problems in the algebraic decision tree model reduce to reasoning about the topology of underlying spaces of solutions (Betti numbers show up as a relevant parameter). 
In one sense, ALL of optimization is geometric: linear programs involve finding the lowest point of a polytope in high dimensions, SDPs are linear functions over the space of semidefinite matrices, and so on. Geometry is used heavily in the design of algorithms here. 
Nielsen et al. showed that quantum computing has a geometrical interpretation. Specifically, they showed that finding a short quantum circuit to perform a target unitary $U$ is equivalent to finding a short geodesic in a particular curved geometry. See the following papers for details: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0603161  and  http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701004
Finally, in recent years there's been a great deal of interest in so-called "lift-and-project" mechanisms for solving optimization problems, and these make heavy use of the underlying geometry and lifts to higher dimensional spaces: notions from algebraic geometry play an important role here. 
You are aware of GCT, but you might not be aware of Mulmuley's earlier work on showing a separation between a subset of PRAM-computations and P, which uses geometric ideas of how a computation can be viewed as carving up a space. 
Older work has attempted to give a description of models of computation systems, like the pure $\lambda$-calculus, in terms of certain topological spaces called domains. The Wikipedia article gives a good overview.