Since this is the only server of a small public-facing ecommerce website, I'm trying to minimize downtime - an hour or two I can tolerate if it's during a low access period, but I don't have hardware access to the machine, so wiping it and installing a new distro would likely result in extended downtime during a peak time while the non-emergency support people are in.
I think the best you can do here is some basic hardening of the server you have until you can provision a replacement.  Disable any network accessible services that aren't required for your application, assuming you are using apache disable modules you aren't using and maybe go through a doc like the CIS Security guide.  You say it's a shopping cart web site, that probably implies apache/mod_ssl are the only network accessible services (and ssh but that can be restricted to only be allowed from wherever you are doing management).  I would take a look at security vulns published for apache and openssl from the time these were last updated, weed through the ones that don't apply to your configuration and try to mitigate the ones that do.  That just leaves your shopping cart software as a source of problems, ideally its dependancies won't be terribly OS specific so you may be able to update it independently of moving the whole thing to a more supportable OS.
First option just seems messy, and like it's a failure waiting to happen. I like the sound of the second option in that it seems to be a clean way to do it, plus it means I can ditch Fedora and go to CentOS. However, it will be a lot of work cleaning up the site code to make it portable. This needs done anyway and will be my long term solution, but it will take time, during which the main server is vulnerable. Is there anything I can do in the short term to mitigate the threat to the server until I have the time to arrange a proper switchover?
First of all i think you need to access the security threats on your current linux install you can find that out here, maybe its not as bad as you think but until you have audited your setup it is difficult to gauge. The problem with fedora is it is very bleeding edge. A move to  centOS in the long run is a very good idea. I would suggest setting up a VM somewhere with a centOS install and trying your site and seeing exactly what breaks. It is quite possible that is not as bad as you imagine (ok i seem to be saying that alot in this answer..). If you can get this site working change the DNS to point to the new centOS site and then replace the server mirroring the setup.
I have an old dedicated server running an out of date version of Fedora Core. As a result of the age of the distro, its repositories are no longer maintained, so the software on the server is getting badly out of date, and I would like to bring things current to avoid security risks.
Note:  When I say "new site" and "new server" what I really mean is some separate isolated instance from the main one.  Virtual machine, different machine, different distro, whatever works for you.  The idea is to build your new site, bring it up to date, patched, secure, and then switch over to it.  I'm not a big fan of keeping "insecure/dead weight" on the network.
None of this is a guarantee that you won't get popped, or that you haven't already had trouble that you just aren't aware of yet, but it's probably the best you can do with the tools that you have.