Control-click or right-click your virtual machine and select "Show Package Contents". A new Finder window should open, containing among other things an Applications folder.
If you have additional sites you want to send to Internet Explorer, you can repeat the relevant steps above to define additional rules.
Drag this Applications folder into the main area of Choosy's file selection window that you left open earlier. The file selection window should now show the contents of that Applications folder.
Switch to the Finder and open the folder containing your virtual machine bundle; this is usually the Virtual Machines folder in the Documents folder in your home folder.
The second part of your question is: How do you send web links from the Mac to a browser running in your Windows virtual machine in VMware? This is accomplished by using the OS X application icons that VMware creates for you for every Windows application in your virtual machine. In VMware Fusion 3.1.3, I find these application icons inside the virtual machine bundle itself. It looks like in Fusion 4, you can have those icons placed directly into your Mac Applications folder. If you've done that, you should at this point be able to navigate to your Applications folder, select the Internet Explorer icon, click Select, click OK, and be done. If you haven't done that, or are using Fusion 3, then follow these steps:
Your question actually has two parts. First: How do you send some web links to one web browser but other web links to another web browser? OS X decides what application to send a link to based solely on the protocol — the part before the first colon — so for example all http links would be sent to one program (like Safari) while all mailto links go to another program (maybe Mail). When you install Choosy, it becomes the program to which OS X sends all web links — and Choosy can be configured to send different links to different browsers, based on criteria you define. Using Choosy 1.0.3, I had success with the following steps: