From what is on their site it would give you the impression that the 3D editor and engine would greatly help with development.  They even show Box Macabre on their site which uses the TorqueX 3D engine.
TGEA is a TGE that support shaders, unfortunately it can easily get hell slow, and it was sorta broken (I know some dudes that spent 80% of their resources hacking TGEA source to make a simple cartoon shader work properly).
So, about TGEA and TGE: Lots of people claim that the best is that they provide the source... I say that they provide the source, because without it you cannot do much...
I too, was naive and thought, wow a XNA based engine that would help speed along development.  And on top of that TorqueX is free if you have an XNA creator's club account.
But some other teams that I know, don't found those bugs to hilarious, specially one that after 4 months working to make a REALLY cool castle, could not make the collision work (even doing it properly...) without severe hacks, and even then it was still strange...
However, having the source and seeing how they approached certain problems is always nice. It's also a full game engine, with pipeline, as opposed to a lot of engines out there.
I purchased the XNA account on 06/18/2009 so the TorqueX I have experience with is back in the days of TorqueX 2D and TorqueX 3D 3.1.5
I don't regret buying it, as a learning tool. I wouldn't use it to make a game. I would definitely not recommend it to someone just starting out.
I am a licencee of most Torque products. Don't let the screenshots fool you, it's indeed the art that sells it. As for the engine - you can make games with it, and decent ones at that, but not without putting in a lot of blood, sweat and tears. That holds true for most engines though.
The TorqueX 2D engine/editor was a lot better.  Actually usable, but since I had the free XNA creators version I only got binaries and no source code.  It's no fun when you find bugs in the engine but lack the source code to actually fix them.  Their forums were littered with source code fixes which could not be applied to the binary distro.
Everything is peachy at this point and hopes are high.  That is until you actually try and use it...
TorqueX 3D 3.1.5 is based around using their editor to modify xml files.  Too bad the editor was EXTREMELY unstable.  You of course don't get to know this until you get access to their "private" forums.  If you want to know why they are private it's because you'll see huge gripes.  One, that TorqueX 3D was basically a POS and two, the utter lack of documentation.  The companies "defense" against the lack of documentation is that there was only one documentor that was shared between all the engines they develop.
My own team had problems with that too, ranging from random collision boxes in the middle of the nothing (yep, you was walking and suddenly you could not walk...) to walls that don't collide.
Would I use it? No. As with most engines I find it easier to write it myself so I know what it can do and how I should do it without having to grasp someone else's philosophy that is bound to clash with mine.
First, the regular Torque Game Engine, the documentation is a mess, the support is more about forcing you to ask on the forums, and the engine although solid, it is old, and has several bugs of the "hilarious" type...
Now TorqueX... well, the editor was crashy, and crashy, and SO CRASHY that we decided to switch engine in mid development.
I even had "The Complete Guide to Torque X" book which was written by one of the developers of Torque X.  Basically the only documentation that existed at the time.  Anyways to the end of the story it was a complete nightmare.  I ended up switching over to TorqueX 2D which also was a ton of problems.  
Would I recommend it? Hmmm, hard to say. It has an editor, it has documentation, it has support and it's affordable. The code is reasonably structured - you could do worse.