I highly suggest you get a Tower server or move this server to a dedicated cooled room. Dell makes some cheap Tower based stuff. 
People have pointed out that there is no magical fan that you can swap out that will make less noise without a drop in cooling that will damage your server.
rackmount servers are usually not manufactured for non-DC environments, and this is why their noise levels are not as well controlled as would a desktop system's be. If you mess with the fans, you'll end up ruining the server, and probably losing support for it in the process. You could try to check the BIOS for an "acoustic mode" - som IBM machines have it, Dell might have something similar as well, but even like this - it will not help you much.
Also Servers have monitoring systems if you remove fans which have health checks you will get errors in BIOS and if Dell is like IBM your thermal temps for shutdown and warning will decrease drastically. 
I am going to add on to what some other people have said. First Rackmounts are designed to be in a DC where sound is irrelevant. That also means that they are designed to have an ambient temp ~65-70F, your room you have it in is most likely warmer so it has to move more air to pull the heat off. Second you don't realize how much though went into airflow design I bet Dell has ~12 guys that focus on only that. That means modifying it slightly can not only affect performance but will cause failure and rightfully Dell won't warranty it. Third your forgetting some physics here:). There are 2 ways to move lots of air with fans,1 fans can be big and slow or 2 small fans high RPMs. You have a 1U server which is 1.5 IN(sorry, I'm American(3.5CM) tall so you can see that small and fast is the only option.
Although I'm sure you could find quieter fans I would be tempted not to bother messing with them. Dell have lots of engineers who spend their whole lives balancing the various physical requirements and constraints required to adequately cool the parts as laid out in their servers - messing with this cooling will almost certainly affect some of the components MTBFs and could very seriously affect the overall stability of the server as a whole. All manufacturers produce installation guides showing how and where to place any given server and I couldn't recommend going against this advice sorry, however irritating to you it is.