I'm working on an ARG which will be implemented mostly through a standard website. I'd like to give some of the images on the site steganographic content (hidden content stored in an image, e.g. an 8 color image of the same dimensions stored as even and odd color values in the pixels). Technologically, this is fairly easy to do. However, I'm having trouble figuring out a subtle way to hint at the presence of this content. The effect itself is invisible to the naked eye, and nobody just randomly checks for this kind of thing. What can I do to draw players' forensic attention to these images, while still maintaining an amount of subtlety (i.e. something that doesn't make it glaringly obvious)?
Replacing an image with something new will draw attention, especially if that image was part of the navigation for the site. Misspell something, screw up some grammar, leave off a period. Give conflicting information about an image eg, the time stamp says May 12th but it was posted on May 11th, or there's something going on that happened on the 13th, not the 12th.
The easiest way is to somehow implant a reference to your ARG in the image. A photo-shopped in poster on the wall with the logo for your game on it in a photo that otherwise shouldn't reference the game. But more subtle than that, make the picture somehow disconcerting. For reference look at paintings by Magritte and you'll know what I mean about disconcerting (you might want to be more mild than him though). Or look at pictures for the "When you see it.." meme for ideas on things that you'd glance over but disturb you if you noticed the details.
Even something like the size of the image can be a give away. When playing cryptographic games lots of people carefully go though the code of suspect web pages and they'll have in text the dimensions of an image. If say 31 is an important number and an image width turns out to be a multiple of that, people will look closer. Putting protection on the image so you can't just right click and save to download will also draw interest. Having very crisp graphics everywhere but then uploading one with higher compression all of a sudden will be suspicious. Fiddle with the metadata so if they download all the images on the site and compare them they'll notice some either have additional info or are stripped of it.
These are just some suggestions. I'm not really sure who your target audience is, or what kind of feel you're going for, so it's hard to be more specific than general ideas about how one might go about something like this. But in all likeliness you won't need to hint much at all, just introduce your players to increasingly more complex puzzles and someone is bound to wonder if there's anything hidden in your image files. 