While this solved my original problem, it doesn't answer my question, that came up: How can a certificate be revoked without connectivity to the issuer? I do have quite a lot of root-certificates in my store that don't seem to have any kind of URL or IP to check for their revocation status.
Is it somehow necessary that the Root-CA (or a subordinate CA) is accessible by the client-machine to somehow verify that the certificate hasn't been revoked? Or am I missing something else? If it needs to be online, is there a way to do it without? This is not a production environment (and never supposed to become one) but just testing for IPv6-readyness.
Of course it couldn't work because I only imported the Exchange-server's certificate in my client. This references my private root-CA as issuer. Since I didn't import my root-CA's certificate, my client could never trust the exchange certificate because it couldn't verify it with the root-CA's certificate. So, after I exported my root-CA's cert and imported it on my client to the "Trusted Root Certification Authorities"-store, the Exchange-cert became trusted as well. And subsequently Outlook 2016 connects perfectly.
Everything is running ok so far. I.e. I can access the Exchange-OWA and send and receive emails to IPv6-enabled mail-providers.
TL;DR - You will need to manually propagate the CRL as you are the Root CA and its your responsibility  
I am trying to setup an IPv6-only Exchange Server 2013, running on Server 2012 R2 Datacenter. This is a 1-machine-setup in a VirtualBox for testing purposes.
However, I still cannot seem to get Outlook 2016 to connect. This seems to be related to my certificates. Also Chrome/IE accessing the OWA complain about the certificate, but this can be skipped, while for Outlook 2016 it's a stop.
Well, I have to say I am sorry. But this whole topic is quite new to me. However, I've managed to find the solution to my problem on my own:
As for your original question, the issue lies in the fact that your client had no way of identifying & validating the leaf certificate. For any machine to do the same, it must have the Public Cert of Root CA in its trust-store. Also, You did not need to copy the leaf certificate to the client. 
Therefor, I installed the Certification Authority role on the server, configured it (Enterprise-CA, Root-CA), created a certificate in Exchange 2013, signed it by my CA (web enrollment) and enabled it in Exchange. So, if I access the OWA from the server, certificate is fine. Then I copied the certificate to the machine running my Outlook-client and imported it there (Windows 10 Home Premium x64). However, Chrome/IE still complain about a non-trusted issuer. My certificate shows up looking at the windows-certificate-store, but if I check Internet Options in Control Panel, I don't see my certificate. When I try to add it there, it says it worked, but it doesn't appear in the list.