Guild Wars 2 has something like this. Thieves and Necromancers can put down a Ground Target AOE that lets spells, arrows, rocks, etc, to absorb the effect. So, if an arrow that is normal goes through the effect, it adds poison damage. 
I think I get the idea. You want to combine 2 skills into 1 combined skill, or do you mean a combine effect based off of the two skills. Like if hit with a two fire spells in a row, you are prone to more fire damage and get a fire debuff? If not, it's just as another said, your wording. 
3b) Alternatively, let your game controller react to SkillActivatedEvents by going through all the active skills and looking for any combos to apply. In this case, information about dual skills is stored in or accessed by your game controller object.
I would do it with, off the top of my head, enum states possibly. Though this probably isn't the best way to do it. 
A couple things. I am not sure how you can activate a dual-skill off of a single skill if the dual skill requires Character A's skill choice and Character B's skill choice to produce skill C. 
3a) Let skills that are already in effect react to SkillActivatedEvents by changing the behavior of the new skill, by changing their own behavior, or by unregistering both itself and the new skill in favor of a new skill. If you take this route, information about dual skills is stored in or accessed by your skill objects
1) Define a class SkillActivatedEvent that stores a Skill object, a Unit object, and some other properties like the area in which the skill is active
I take it it is something turn-based like Chrono-Trigger? You select skills for the characters and then they do them in order of selection based on some sort of initiative timer. If I were doing this, I would possibly have some sort of checker for a bunch of spell flags that can produce the combined effect. You wouldn't need to check this until after the second class's ability is chosen, and then the third. If this is real-time, it's going to be more difficult as you need to set an amount of time that you allot to let the player select multiple skills to cause an effect, if this is something you even want to worry about. 