I'm a genetics PhD student. The word-processing and referencing software available for windows is more suitable (and more compatible with computers in the library etc.), but there's some genetics software that runs better on linux. (Currently i'm shopping for a laptop.)
There is another alternative that has not been discussed here.  SomeClown has alluded to it but did not specifically recommended it.  This will be not only the most expensive option but far and away the simplest and most reliable.  I simply use a separate "box" for each OS that I use or play with and use a KVM switch to swap between them.  While this requires a much greater footprint and greater initial expense as well as the stand-by use of power for each box involved, it is clearly the simplest and most reliable solution.  Not even Windows 7 XP Mode works as well with legacy hardware (HP Photosmart P1100 printer) as a dedicated XP machine.  With this setup, you can leave a program in one OS running while you work on a program in another OS and have no delay or slow-down as a result of switching between OSs.  This just works much better for me.
To cut a long story short: go with virtualisation rather than dual-boot. It works very reliably in my experience (both on home desktops/portables and the dev/test servers that I maintain at work) and is far more convenient as you can use both sets of software together - transferring files and other data between the host OS and VMs is no hardship either.
Running Linux or Windows in a VirtualBox or VMWare VM, both of which are free for the sort of use you describe and many more, works very reliably these days. If the genetics software you wish to run is very CPU intensive (and I assume it is, if I'm understanding what you mean by "genetics software" I assume it will be performing searches over large data-sets) and scales well on multi-core CPUs (and you get a multi-core CPU in your new machine) then you may be better off running Linux as the hist OS and Windows in a VM - this is how I run my netbook as your word processing and related tasks will not need such performance. Of course what other software you might like to run could reverse this recommendation. Both VBox and VMWare run find with specific CPU support unless you want to run 64-bit OSs in your VM(s). If you want to run 64-bit OSs in the VM(s) or a little efficiency boost for 32-bit ones then you'll need a CPU with relevant support. Make sure your machine has enough RAM for both the host OS and what you are running in the VMs, of course (this shouldn't be a problem as 3 or 4Gb seems to be becoming standard on even relatively inexpensive laptops these day.
If the software you are wanting to run is in source form and compiles under cygwin then this is a perfectly valid option too, though there are some things for which the cygwin libraries are not as efficient for so there could a similar performance hit there as running it in a VM. If the software is in binary form then you may not have as much success running it in the cygwin environment.
Dual booting is usually no needed these days - unless you need 3D graphics performance or such in both OSs then virtualisation or ports like cygwin will do the job.
As @houbysoft mentioned, partitioning (meaning breaking up one drive into two segments that will appear as different drives on your computer) is the most common option for dual-booting, but the Wubi Installer for Ubuntu provides an effective alternative by creating virtual partitions on your disk.  It also uses the Windows Boot Manager rather than the GRUB Menu that most distributions default to.
You do not need any special hardware to dual-boot, but I would recommend searching for the computer you are thinking about in the context of Linux issues to see if there are any common issues with it.  Even brands that (at least in my experience) provide decent enough Linux support (in my case, Toshiba), you could still end up wit a laptop whose ACPI won't work with Linux, effectively preventing you from using it as a laptop.
I know you can get virtual linux in things like cygwin, or you can get two whole operating systems installed on the one machine ("dual boot"?). 
It seems you don't need any specialized hardware for it? but does separate drives or something like that help?
Dual-booting will provide you with faster Linux than a true virtual solution (which Cygwin is not) because you will be dedicating your computer's entire processing power, etc to it.  However, you will have to put up with the time it takes to shut down one operating system and boot the other whenever you need to switch.
Running Linux in a virtual machine (such as VirtualBox) will typically result in fewer issues simply because your hardware will be emulated so you will not likely have any driver incompatibilities.