A BETTER SOLUTION for Outlook 2010:  I found this excellent article on goovyPost http://www.groovypost.com/howto/microsoft/how-to-automatically-bcc-in-outlook-2010/ that explains how to set up Outlook 2010 to blind copy (BCC) yourself on all of your emails.  You will have to do this first if you want to then use rules...
Go to File > Account Settings > select the account & click on 'Change'. Click on 'More Settings' then 'Sent Items' tab. Then change from 'Save sent items in the following folder on the server', to 'Save sent items in the sent items folder on this computer... Davsmg
You are much better off just disabling automatic saving of messages in the Sent Items folder and then creating a rule that stores a copy of all sent email in the desired folder.
Once you set up automatic BCC, you can then set up Outlook rules for incoming messages to go where-ever you want them.  One quick method guide is here http://blogs.office.com/b/microsoft-outlook/archive/2012/04/23/quick-rule-creation-in-outlook-2010.aspx, and you can just search Google for many other sites that tell you how.
Each time I send e-mail I want to save the sent mail to either the default "sent mail" folder, or be able to select the folder manually from a drop-down of available folders under my inbox (this makes it much easier to manage sent mail).
I have set up my inbox "view" tab using "Conversations", and a few weeks back all "sent" mail showed as part of the thread "conversations", this was working rather nicely but for some unknown reason it stopped working?  Go figure ??
Be CAREFUL, especially in Outlook 2010, because if you are connecting to an Exchange Server (MS Exchange 2010 for me) then you will see a WARNING that says changing the default folders (Inbox or Sent Items) will result in storing your email ONLY on your local PC.  Whether this is absolutely the case, or not, I would not risk it (unless you have control of the exchange server and can do what you want... but then you probably would not be reading this!)
Voila! All your sent items are now saved to the specified folder. Note that this won't apply to messages you send on other clients (such as a mobile or web client).