For the most part upgrades from the CentOS base repositories are safe to install, The only time i've had update issues with CentOS is when i start / or needed to use a outside repository (DAG, RPMForge, Ect ect..)
We have a lot of systems that get updated quarterly (every 3 months); and very rarely see any problems from package updates.  (except on systems doing weird kernel things to access LUNs from a SAN)
If any config files have changed, the packages will tell you about a .rpmorig or .rpmnew file that gets created.  It depends on the configuration of the RPM itself.  You can look for warnings about any of those being created and either put your old config back ("cp foo foo.bak; cp foo.rpmorig foo") or look at the .rpmnew files and incorporate any changes into your config.
This is why today, I almost never run any production systems on real hardware.  I run them in Virtual Machines.  Then during a quick bit of downtime (5 minutes), I run either a snapshot from within ESX itself, or if I'm using a custom Xen/Solaris/OpenVZ setup, I do an LVM snapshot of the server image.  I then boot the original back up, and now I have a copy I can do with as I please. 
That said, start with updating the kernel, and apache, and then work backwards from there.  You don't have to take the full package list that yum reports, but the top attack vectors should be the ones you patch the soonest. 
Everytime I've ever had a Linux system hacked, it's because I left apache, openssh, or the kernel itself unpatched. 
While yes, it would take time to upgrade, And in the same manor, it would take time to restore if something went wrong, How much pain/suffering would it be if the data on that system was deleted through a exploit / hack?
Sound like you need an actual system administrator to take a couple of hours to look over your system, update it and make sure everything runs again.  Ideally, you would have this person come and do this for you a few times a month.  A server is not an install-once-and-forget-about-it thing; it needs regular service.
RHEL (and therefore CentOS) are careful not to update versions to anything incompatible, instead they backport bugfixes and security fixes, so the actual changes to packages are minimal and reasonably unlikely to cause compatibility problems.
The Best Setup for this kind of thing is to have a hot-swappable server ready, so you can test the updates on it before deploying them to the live server.