More in general: incoming unsolicited mails aren't a problem, as you can always send them to /dev/null. The only problems you must be carefull of are the mails sent using your smtp, as someone might be willing to ask you questions about those mails.
In general: guessing the phenomenon is impossible. It requires more time than finding a good filtering solution, and most of the times your investigation gets blocked by impossibility to travel or access private information.
SPF records can be looked up by the mail recipient's SMTP server and checked to see if the mailserver/MX who sent this mail is authorized to send mail for this domain.
Such a record will then indicate to the receipients of your prolific friends' job résumés, that they are not who they claim to be, sending from a non-authorized mailserver, and their identity is in question -- if the mailserver didn't discard the mail immediately already.
If you want to fight for it - ie: spend your time to produce a smart solution - go with greylisting, baynes filters, spamassassin or newer stuff.
It takes some time but after a bit of training to your filters, you won't get much of that spam any more. In your case it is easier to train your filters because you don't mind to produce some false positives (ie: mails that get tagged as spam and you'll never see, but indeed were directed to your domain), because you don't use that domain any more and you have one legit address only for serious stuff, that doesn't get filtered. So: better a false positive rather than a false negative (ie: a spam mail that doesn't get tagged as such).
If you do not use this Domain for sending mail, or even if you are, your best bet would be to create an SPF record in the domain's DNS zone.
This would translate to "Only IP 127.0.0.1 or any mailserver of Google may send mail for this domain. ~all: But my admins are lazy and might forget to add a new mailserver here, so this is a SoftFail, you should still accept mail from other sources."
If you do send mail for this domain, then you would define all allowed IPs here, who are authorized to send mail for this domain, such as:
where v=spf1 indicates this is an SPF text record and -all translates to "Nobody is allowed to send mail for this domain, what you just received is bogus."