Another answer suggests the OVF format. IIRC OVF import into HyperV requires download of a plugin which needs a very old .NET version... in other words, it's painful if HyperV will be the most frequently used hypervisor for your vm's.
What I have had trouble with is kernel modules. First, many modules for various hypervisors weren't installed. Second, dracut (which builds the initramfs on centos and some other distros) looks at the current hardware and only includes modules which work with that hardware. It's possible to force it to include other modules via --add-drivers, but you must know the exact file names for the modules. For any given hypervisor, you'll probably need virtual storage and virtual networking modules, and perhaps a balloon memory driver, etc.
I have systemd-networkd configured to default to DHCP on any connected interfaces, and I haven't had problems with network configuration. While I like the power of systemd-networkd, for DNS it requires systemd-resolved - which departs significantly from traditional resolver behavior. I'm sticking with it... for now.
At VirtualBox you have to follow steps like described in VirtualBox user manual chapter 9 - subsection "Advanced storage configuration" : http://www.virtualbox.org/manual/ch09.html#id504534 what looks more or less like this:
The list of dracut options can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man8/dracut.8.html#OPTIONS; I ended up with something similar to the following (note, I'm not sure whether the kernel module names are accurate - and if they are they're only for HyperV):
When crafting arguments for dracut, note the distinction between a dracut module and a kernel module.
Thanks to that, in such configuration you can even switch from one VM to another, using the same installation.
dracut --kver 0 -f --xz -a "busybox mdraid" -o "bootchart dash plymouth btrfs dmraid fcoe-uefi iscsi nbd biosdevname" --no-kernel --add-drivers "hv_storvsc hv_vmbus hv_utils"
Fortunately, VHDs are importable by many hypervisors and easily created by qemu-img from raw, qcow2, etc.
Unlike OP, I'm using Centos7 and the primary hypervisor is HyperV. That said, most of this will apply to other distros and hypervisors.