I use LVM snapshots quite a lot. The great advantage is that these are DB ignorant, so no DB-related bugs affect this type of backup. The great disadvantage is an overly increased I/O. Check out mylvmbackup.
For true 'world on fire' backups, I use xtrabackup by Percona. It is free, open sourced, in very active development, and very easy to automate. 
Today there's hardly any discussion (as I see it, of course), with regard to InnoDB backup. Xtrabackup by Percona is a widespread, feature rich & stable solution which offers:
If you have ZFS or another file system which supports snapshots, that may be a great solution. If you have a storage device which supports snapshots, that's great too. All snapshots are DB ignorant, though you often want to script this a-la mylvmbackup so as to catch the point in time (DB-wise) for which backup is done.
This is how I would tackle this in order of priorities. and that is then end of my objective answer :)
Smaller databases may benefit from the common mysqldump. It really depends on your database size and traffic. mysqldump, event with --single-transaction, places a high load on the DB server, and makes for accumulating locks. It is not as hot as you might think (see this post of mine regarding backup temperatures).
For a large portion of DB setups these days, using mysqldump as the ONLY backup solution is not scalable. It is slow, creates HUGE files, importing mysqldumps takes forever, and it is tricky making mysqldump give you a true 'point in time' recovery with data consistent across the board. I use mysqldump to backup v small tables (less than 200MB each) that are also super critical and more prone to end user foul ups (like user table or user_profile). The common use case when I go back to these is when someone asks "When was this user changed? and what was the value of setting X for them" so it is not really a data is lost rather than a data is messed up situation.
Xtrabackup derives from InnoDB Hot Backup, nowadays called MySQL Enterprise Backup. There's additional wrapping scripts which allow for the extra featureset.