The downside is that every single socket and switch will need at least 3 new wires and that is allot of GPIO's 
I want to now start controlling the Lights and possibly the wall sockets with these raspberry pi. I have found a lot of information about using mechanical relays to switch lights on and off, which is what I want to do. But I want to maintain the normal switching functionality. 
What I am asking is there a way to configure the normal switch to function as a master, that not be affected by the relay state to switch the light on and off. Below is a diagram (not very good) to demonstrate what im talking about.
Alternative: You can make wireless 433mhz with relays instead. They can leach power from the 220/110volt lines and trigger the relay when it gets a signal. You can use tinyAVR MCU that are cheap as chips for IO control and cheap as chips radio receiver, which is a wire and some kind of ballast.
This doesn't have quite as much DIY mojo as what you are planning, but it avoids the (small) risks associated with switching high-voltage with non-conventional devices.
One way I can do this is by interfacing each switch back to the raspberry pi and letting the mechanical relay do all the work. If possible i would like to avoid this.
I am currently building and installing a home automation system. I have currently configured centralized audio system with ceiling mounted speakers in each room with a raspberry pi in each room. 
To make things easier with less high voltage wires is the have the Relay at the actual wall switch. 
I would avoid building your own components and consider using an established (and UL-listed) solution that you can manage with your Pi.   You could replace your existing wall switches with (for example) Insteon switches, and use software like Openhab to manage them.   The switches still have local control, and Openhab can tell what state they're in and turn them on/off or adjust dim levels.   In addition to Insteon, you can look into UPB and Z-Wave controlled switches; each of these systems has their advocates.
The one downside is that these switches generally require a neutral wire in addition to the hot that is switched.   Depending on the age of your house and the habits of the electricians that wired it, you may or may not have that wire available.