I had to do both.  I built two node clusters on both SLES 11 SP2 and Redhat 6.4 (Centos 6.4).  Shared IP, storage, and application (Oracle).  SLES is much easier.  Still takes awhile, but much easier.  Redhat 6.4 is a lot more tedious and took quite a bit more skill.  
Clustering, HA and load balancing is not a simple topic and will take some effort to truly appreciate.  Every application is different when it comes to clustering as well.  For instance not every application can run two instances at once, meaning each instance thinks that it has exclusive access to the database.  This would be a candidate for Active/Passive or Hot/Cold HA clustering.
I dislike SLES11-HAE since it does not contain the full "old" Heartbeat-Stack any more, but sports a multicast based HA-solution.
At some point though you will need to just dive into this and start experimenting.  Be sure to keep notes so you can more easily build your production test system when you're ready.
We did not do any performance tests of SLES vs Redhat, so I can't tell you which one is faster.  I can't imagine they are far off from each other.  Redhat definitely was harder to build.  However, considering CentOS = Redhat and CentOS = free, if you want a free enterprise level cluster solution, it's good to know how to do CentOS/Redhat (a.k.a. Oracle Linux also)
I finally did figure out how to get the quorum disk up and running, very handy because you can add additional metrics/tests to it easily (like ping the default gateway)
Overall, Redhat was much more complicated to get up and running. A lot more fine tuning, especially with quorum disk.  In fact it is quite tedious to the point where when I googled around just about every answer I saw said to forget the quorum disk and go for a split-brain race (not ideal).  
If You want tools that will work with different linux distributions there are several options (depending on what You need):
http://docs.redhat.com/docs/en-US/Red_Hat_Enterprise_Linux/6/html/High_Availability_Add-On_Overview/index.html
With SLES11 HA is an "external" solution, since the HAE is a license of its own. But: SLES11 already contains XEN and KVM - you are free to choose.