In your case, Sony has dropped support and no longer offers replacement batteries.  These are generally available in the marketplace for most laptops, even very old ones.  You can Google the laptop model number, and battery suppliers will have it cross-referenced with the appropriate battery.  
I've had bad luck in general with third party batteries.  There are previous, related questions on Super User where users swear by generic batteries they've used and think people are nuts to pay for OEM batteries.  I've mainly sworn at them, so obviously, this is a case where YMMV.  I've had many that were dead on arrival or failed in less than a year.  Such failures are generally covered by warranty, but there's the hassle factor of having it fail when you need it, and having to deal with the exchange and delay. 
The battery will have its own battery model number, usually included on a label on the battery (it might be on a face hidden when the battery is plugged into the laptop).  You can also typically find it listed on the computer manufacturer's web site, either under the laptop specifications or a link to accessories or replacement parts.  
I won't get into the usual common-sense caveats that apply to most purchases -- researching the vendor reputation, not blindly trusting claims of matching specs without verifying against the OEM specs, checking return privileges and warranties, etc.
Searching "Sony Vaio VPCSA35GG battery" on eBay shows that battery is Sony part VGP-BPS24 and is available there and on Amazon in many forms. For a Sony genuine one add "Genuine" to the search on eBay.
I found specs for your battery at a battery supplier selling genuine OEM batteries: http://www.laptopbatteryexpress.com/Sony-Brand-Vaio-VGP-BPS24-Laptop-Battery-p/sony-vgp-bps24.htm (The same supplier has a third party battery at half the price). BTW, I know nothing about this vendor or the third party brand they sell, and didn't research any reviews, myself. 
Your battery model number is VGP-BPS24. The relevant specs for the Sony OEM (Original Equipment Manufacturer) battery:
OEM batteries are pretty universally high quality.  However, you pay a hefty price premium.  In your case, the OEM battery is extremely pricey, and there is a significant potential cost saving for a generic replacement.  The main things I would consider in choosing are:
The batteries aren't like dry cells, with a few standard sizes common to everything.  They are very specific, and not interchangeable between computer manufacturers, often not even between different models by the same company.  So you can't use batteries designed for another brand.  Even if they contain the same internal cells, they won't physically fit in your laptop.
I'd search places like Amazon or NewEgg with your model number.  NewEgg comes up with something.  Read the reviews and check the return policy.  That'll give you an idea if they are trustworthy or not as most are sold by a third party.  I've had good experiences with Anker's customer service as I had bought a new laptop battery that went bad after about 6 months and they refunded me, but I don't know if they make your battery or not.  I don't have any experience with any other manufacturers.
The battery must be the same model number. If it's a third party version, it will probably say "replacement for...", which is OK. 
I would use a criterion of the capacity being within roughly 5%.  The OEM battery is rated at 4400 mAh, so I would expect the replacement to be within about 4200 to 4600 (the values are typically rounded to 100's).  My rationale: