Use Malware Bytes, this usually works for removing adware, as well as avg antivirus free, use both, then for 3rd times the charm get windows security essentials and or windows defender. Secondly I highly recommend install Comodo Firewall, it would have prevent this in the first place, it prevents anything being written to registry or critical files from being changed, or files that shouldn't be access the internet without your consent.
Using browsers in a sandbox might help, but won't help if the adware is proxy-based. The best way to avoid adware is to be careful while installing programs and to reject "offers" (Unchecky can do this automatically but isn't perfect), avoid downloading programs from advertisements (try disabling AdBlock and searching for Firefox, there's a lot of fake download links in the form of ads), close unfamiliar webpages and pop-ups that tell you that your programs need to be updated, if you're on a website like Download.com which bundles offers with its programs always choose things like "Direct Download Link" instead of clicking the big download button (especially buttons that say suspicious things like Smart/Sponsored uninstaller), things like that. You can buy premium antimalware programs like Malwarebytes Pro which have real time protection to block adware or just scan frequently if you have antimalware programs without real timeprotection. Note that an antivirus is not the same as an antimalware. Antiviruses are designed to detect most threats but can miss adware, and antimalware programs are designed to detect adware and maybe a little bit of what Antiviruses detect.
You should do this while in safe made without networking, uninstall chrome, use ccleaner to remove unused registry files. Then run malwarebytes, avg, windows essentials/defender. Run ccleaner again to clean up registry files. Do a fresh install of chrome and see how it goes. Definitely install a firewall like Comodo or one that you like. Do not download anything you do not know either.