I did see that new "download and install" UI element on the Windows Update screen before it automatically updated yesterday. But of course I never clicked it.
Microsoft reasons that users should upgrade their windows at least once a year in order to make it run smoothly, but prefers every half year. This is actually a good thing to do because this will refresh windows and keeps things running fast. It is smart to wait upgrading until you know for sure that there are no issues with a particular version. So when a new version comes out, I usually wait a month before I upgrade myself.
I did not change any hidden Windows update settings (like with a group policy or in the registry). Previously, I had it configured to be in the "semi annual" update channel (not the "targeted" one) so that I get the updates later, but even that option was removed from the GUI in some update (I assume because it "should" now be manual to install feature updates).
So in order to get the new Windows Update functionality, you literally need to update to Windows 10 v1903 before you can use the new Windows Update functionality.
As I understood it, Microsoft changed the way how Windows 10 automatically installs feature updates starting from version 1903. E.g., on this official Microsoft blog post it says:
But yesterday my private Windows 10 Pro x64 version 1809 automatically downloaded and installed feature update 1903 (and even did that while I was playing a game...). As far as I understand it, that shouldn't have happened. 1809 Home and Pro is still supported until May 12, 2020 so the case that it "soon reaches end of service" that is mentioned in the blog post should also not apply.
Keep in mind that 1903 was released in May, and that it is almost half a year old. Microsoft will always roll out upgrades like these during the course of the year unless specifically told not to.
V1903 is very stable at this point. There should be no issue with upgrading if it has already happened.
Windows versions prior to 1903 do not yet have the software settings to do Windows Updates as the new way. Given how deep Windows Updates is woven into Windows, it is not easy to change the way Windows Updates work on previous versions by simply distributing it through an Update.
But with 1803, 1809 and 1903 you can set Active Hours so that restart will occur outside of those hours. I have Active Hours set for 7 am to 9 pm. Restarts occur after 9 pm. 