I may be behind the times, but in my world there is no such thing as CAT6 Copper Clad Aluminum wiring, or indeed Cat 5 or 5e.   Copper Clad Aluminum (CCA) wire does not meet ANSI/TIA, ISO OR EN specifications and so should not be labelled as such.
The physical difference between cat5e and cat6 has to do with the number of twists per inch and, potentially, the inclusion of shielding.  The result of these changes is that the cable can (minimally) support higher bandwidth, specifically 10GE in this case.  The other cable (5e) isn't rated to support these kinds of speeds but very well might work in practice. 
CCA cable can be used for networks with only short runs and will work if expectations are not high. However, Aluminum corrodes on contact with air which results in lots of post installation problems. Also because of the higher resistance, CCA cable should not be used for Power-Over-Ethernet.  It's OK for some applications but it is NOT CAT5 or CAT6 even if it says so on the box!
Including aluminum in conductors decreases cost for the manufacturer.  If the cable meets the various specifications for impedance, crosstalk, etc and the cable is run within spec (bend radius, proximity to interference, strain) then the materials utilized for the conductor don't matter.  
Stay well clear of CCA any of it, its totally useless it has a 40% higher resistance than pure copper and like every one says it does not meet the TIA/EIA standards. BT used aluminium cabling in the 60s fine for 3khz voice path, but when ISDN and ASDL came alone it wouldn't work, hence BT had to upgrade its infrastructure. Used CCA once for CCTV transmission signal and power degraded after about 20 meters    
Aluminum oxidizes over time., depending of your specific environmental area - faster than you would like.....
If you're looking to future-proof for 10GE (or more) then go for 6a or 7.  If you're just setting up basic 100M or GE then it doesn't make much difference.  5e and 6 are fairly close in price.  The distances involved are quite low, which renders any difference theoretical at best.  In summary?  There won't be any practical benefit either way.