Set up your own little VPS and wield the might of root.  If you are going to pay for hosting, why would you not want root?  
I may be overstating the case for VPS slightly, as I'm thinking more about past horrors of Rails deployment, where I have specific experience :)
We like to think we make it the easiest of all, particularly for beginners.  We aim to be really helpful with support requests, and we have  a full browser-based IDE -- so you can actually do all your development via the site without having to install python locally, if you want to.  But I'm in danger of drifting too far into marketing here, so i'll stop.
Instead if you shop for a VPS / Virtual Machine you will get a product that is broadly similar across thousands of hosts - root access, bandwidth, disc space, and the ability to install the exact software, versions and modules you want.  You may have to learn a bit more to set this kind of thing up, but you won't have to submit to one hosting company's idea of what a "standard" Python environment is.  Make your own environment, one that fits your application, and you'll have the pick of many more companies.
All the PaaS offerings pitch the same broad idea:  "You don't want to have to worry about server administration, security patches, scaling, load balancing, all that sysadmin stuff.  Let us take care of that, and leave you to do the interesting work of building the best app for your users".   Essentially, you trade off some of the flexibility you get from building and running your own servers, in exchange for saving lots of time and pain.
Honestly, anything that supports mod_wsgi should do. Everything else (server software, config, etc.) depends on what you need/want, and is therefore up to you.
In my (commercial) opinion, hosting technologies either fall into the category of a "completely standardized" hosting environment (e.g. Apache/mod_php for PHP) or they don't.  Lots of companies provide PHP hosting in exactly the same way.  But for most newer hosting platforms like Python and Ruby - they don't, and so hosts have to go to a lot more work and domain expertise to make particular hosting environments for those languages.
Therefore if you shop for a Python-specialising host, you ought to find a much more clued-in host than one selling PHP hosting.  However I would expect you'd have to pay more for that rarer expertise.  The risk is that you get something a bit more half-baked or very specific to a particular host, which makes your deployment less portable should you want to move.