Just a plain repartition is a trivial matter. I cannot recommend any specific tools to do this, as I do not know your operating system, but by googling "partition tool" and make sure it's one for your platform, and you should be good (Windows has a built in one, I think it's under disk management).
Now you right click on that unallocated space and create a simple partition. The Wizard will guide you. If you have any question, post a comment.
PS - Don't be confused by the colors on my pictures. I use a high contrast theme because of my bad eyes.
When creating the new partition, you get asked which filesystem to use. This depends a lot, but if you're on windows, NTFS will do. If in doubt, FAT32 or exFAT will be a safe choice as long as you are aware of 4Gb as maximum file size.
repartitioning the drive while retaining the data on it makes it harder, and it can be prone to errors. I recommend backing up any data on it that you want to keep, and delete all the partitions on it, and create a new one that fills the entire drive.
There is usually no system partition on an external drive. If your husband does not care about the data on the disk, you can get rid of all the partitions. Here is what you do:
Here you right click on a partition and Delete Volume. Then you right click again on that partition and Delete Partition. Now you should have Unallocated space. You do that for every partition on the disk until the whole disk is unallocated space.
The best option to free space if you don't need the data stored on the drive is to simply reformat it. You won't be needing any specific software and can use your OS in order to do that.
Press Start and type Disk Management on the start screen. Then you will see what's on the first picture below. Click where the arrow points or on the light blue field with the cog wheel which would skip the next picture. After that you get the second picture below. Click again where the arrow points. Now you are in Disk Management - 3d picture.
If I understood your question correctly, you seem to have misunderstood something about partitioning the drive: You do not need software from the hardware manufacturer to do this - any (decent) partitioning tool will do.