You use the built-in backup because patches can make a third-party's backup program not able to properly restore the system state. 
This sounds like an excellent time to test out your backup and restore procedures and practices. ;-)
I'm going to be a wet blanket w/ my answer. If you can rebuild the machines, I think that would provide you the most stable "known quantity" environment. Unless the applications are such a huge time sink as to cause a "migration" to be a net win, I'd think that the time spent making the migration solution work well could eclipse the time just to rebuild by hand (and, besides, it's probably not a bad idea to use this as an opportunity to create or refresh the documentation of the configuration of these server computers).
Unless this box requires 100% perfect uptime, I'd do a restore on the new box using the most recent full backup (you are doing regular backups, right?) of your existing box.  I'd probably do one test run, possibly using a slightly out of date backup, then once I was sure everything was good to go, I'd get a current (right now) backup, and restore that to the new box.
OTOH, if you've got a particularly touchy application and this is a "known working" environment that's been highly tweaked you might see a net win in migration. I'd play devil's advocate and say that all that tweaking should be documented and reproducible. >smile<
I guess it comes down to how painful it is to rebuild the applications and transfer the data. The OS and drivers should be easy and a non-issue.
You can still have difficulties after this, like weird driver issues. And database servers are horrible if the logs didn't commit fully before backup. So you may need to test it out a few times. This works for Windows 2000 and 2003, and the order you do the system state and repair mode install can differ between 2000 and 2003 and depends on service pack level as well.
You might need to redo the system state restore after this. You use the same name because some backup programs (I'm looking at you, Arcserve) won't restore the backup to a different name (instead it tries to go over the network).
To my mind, migrating a 3 y/o Windows installation means migrating a lot of old hotfix uninstall files, potentially garbage files and registry information, and a general "cruftiness". Unless you've done a really good job keeping these machines clean, there's probably some of that cruft that will migrate over.
You could look at a tool like Symantec's Backup Exec System Recovery Server Edition.  It should handle the transition between the dissimilar hardware.  
You can drop a backup from one server onto new tin, but as has been said, hardware drivers will fail and cause problems. The way to do it is: