OpenDarwin has long since been shutdown. It was a Darwin community intended to release Darwin ISO files. Click to find out if they are open again!
Nope, sorry. However, you can (questionably legally) buy a copy of Mac OS X and install it on a PC ("hackintosh"). Also, keep in mind that new Macs come with Mac OS X.
For computers that shipped with 10.6 (Snow Leopard), the App Store must be downloaded and installed as a separate application to gain access to Lion and higher (which is free).
And since the EULA prohibits OS X from running on non-Apple hardware, the answer is always no if you don't actually own a Mac.
So the answer to the question is yes, there is a free version of OS X available from Apple IF your Mac originally shipped with Snow Leopard or higher.  Otherwise, you must pay for Snow Leopard (which Apple no longer sells) to do the upgrade.
PureDarwin is a project meant to continue where OpenDarwin left. It's latest version, PureDarwin Xmas (booting process fixed), still in development (?), is available as a VMWare virtual machine disk (PureDarwin 9). Their website also offers a "nano" version (PureDarwin Nano) as both an ISO file and a VMWare virtual machine. They also link to an old Darwin 8 ISO file stored on apple's Darwin website (actually, they link to the source browser).
Also, please keep in mind that according to the License Agreement (or whatever), you can only install Mac OS X on Apple computers. (But it's possible to do so on other computers, just not legal).
There is no legally free version of OS X, but you can take a look at Darwin. (Didn't link to Hackintosh on purpose, SE and SU are not intended to spread piracy. I don't know if PS (Pirated Software) StackExchange is ever going to exist.)
For computers that shipped with 10.5 (Leopard) and lower, they must upgrade to Snow Leopard first (which is NOT free), so that they can download the App Store app and then upgrade to Lion or higher.
No. Mac OS X costs $129 USD and is available through Apple. While you may be able to find some locations that sell it for slightly less, you will not be able to obtain it for free unless, say, a friend gives it to you.
You can always click on the headers to go to homepages for updates. Download links in this answer (no-hassle mode :P).
Apple stopped charging for OS X as of 10.7 (Lion).  They also stopped pressing physical media at that time. The ONLY authorized distribution channel for OS X 10.7 and higher is the Mac App store.
Apple used to store compressed ISO files of Darwin till version 8.01 (linked from PureDarwin's site).