If you want, you can try fiddling with the cable some to see if you can get it to completely "recognize" the charger.  I have a similar laptop (Inspiron 15R) with a charger with a bad cable, and to get it to charge the laptop, I connect the charger, and push the wire toward the laptop.  (I grasp the charger cable itself an inch or two down the wire from the plug, and apply pressure toward the laptop, like I'm trying to push it harder into the laptop.)  This seems to cause things to connect, and my laptop recognizes the charger and can charge.  (You may also want to fiddle with the other end of the cable where it goes in to the power brick.)
If you can "trick" your laptop into charging using that method, or if your friend's charger works, then your power issue is definitely a bad power cable, and replacing it should fix it.  I would imagine that if the laptop believed that it had a limited current supply (say, from a charger that's not rated high enough for the laptop), then it would cut its performance in order to stay below a certain power threshold, and fixing the power issue will fix the performance issue, though that's just a guess on my part.
If you're getting the BIOS messages in the link you posted, then it's almost definitely your charger.  I've never heard of or noticed a bad power cable impact performance, though I don't let my laptop get to 0% very often either.  (I've heard of gaming laptops that can't reach full speed unless they're plugged in and the battery is at 100%, but I don't know if that concept applies here or not.)
I do agree that only a few months seems a bit quick for a power supply to go out, though if you bend and stress the cable over and over again, it's going to give out sooner or later.  Dell seems to be fairly standard with their chargers; if you have a friend with a Dell laptop, try asking them to borrow their charger and see if it works for you.
One useful tip I've noticed is to pay close attention to the charging light.  On my laptop, when I connect my faulty charger, the battery LED lights up for a few seconds then goes dark.  When I use the pressure trick above, I know I've made it work when the LED stays on for ~15 seconds.  At that point I can let go of the cable and it will continue to charge until I unplug it.  (If the LED goes dark during that period, I unplug it and try again.)  It seems to use a one-time authentication system, where the laptop identifies the charger when you connect it, but once it's satisfied that it's got a good charger, it doesn't check it again.