Note that OWM is not specifically related to GIS: the multi-versioned tables can be of any kind - not just "spatial" tables. However, it is used by a number of GIS tools that need a safe long transaction mechanism: Autodesk Map, Bentley Maps, Geomedia Transaction Manager are examples. A number of customers also use it outside of any GIS.
So Oracle has implemented its own long-transactions/multi-versioning mechanism. It is calle Oracle Workspace Manager (OWM). See http://docs.oracle.com/database/122/ADWSM/ for details. 
In OWM, users work in workspaces (what ESRI calls a version). Workspaces are collaborative: multiple users can work in the same workspace. Updates done in a workspace are only visible to users in that workspace. Changes in a workspace are applied to the parent workspace via a merge operation. A child workspace can start seeing the changes made in its parent via a refresh operation. OWM includes all the mechanics for conflict detection and resolution, long-term locking, change detection, history, "what-if" scenarios ...
The versioning of the kind ESRI offers is for long transactions. Here a transaction can last days, weeks, months ... A database could in theory do this using short transactions: just do not commit, and hope your sessions stays up for days or months. Clearly an impossible guarantee.
OWM is fully transparent to applications: they interact with tables and views as usual. Referential integrity is maintained within the context of each workspace.
Oracle has implemented MMVC almost from its inception. Its main purpose is to reduce contention during updates: make it possible for readers and writers to not block each other. But that is not the same as the multi-versioning offered by ESRI. The traditional database transactions are short transactions: they only last a short time: sub-second, seconds ... maybe minutes or even hours for some batch processes.
Conceptually it is very much like ESRI's approach: fundamental operations are the same (but may use a different terminology). The implementation is different however: where ESRI keeps changes in separate tables (the "A" and "D" tables), Oracle Workspace Manager keeps them all in the main table(s). Views make the use transparent.
Like in ESRI's versions, OWM's workspaces form a hierarchy of nested workspaces, the top one being the LIVE (or "as-built" workspace).
So yes, multi-versioning / long transactions are definitely used in databases in  other contexts that spatial databases.