A VPN can provide limited additional protections provided it is set up such that everything, including DNS goes across it. although some traffic analysis is still possible, this will mask the site as well)
It is also likely that they will be able to see what site/domain (but not which pages) you visited, as your computer will probably use the DNS server they specified, thus leaving a trace of where you went.   If they are dedicated, they may be able to infer additional information based on the size of the packets you sent and received - eg a video site will look a lot different to a banking site in terms of data transmitted and received, the percentage of time data is actually flowing, and the number of requests going through.
Ultimately the answer is yes, they can see what you are doing on their WiFi. Whether they can read passwords or not depends on the websites themselves. Sites that are secure will encrypt passwords so external devices can't read them, but if a website deal passwords in plaintext then it's anybodies game.
They wouldn't be able to read browser histories etc from when you were connected to other networks, unless they have their own particular software running on your machine, in which case they could potentially read whatever. 
If the MAC belongs to you and does not have an added root cert they have the private key for, then they will not be able to see exactly what you are doing if the site uses https, however they will be able to sniff any data sent over http.  (ie if there is no lock on the URL bar, they can sniff it).
When on company wifi, everything - even passwords in some cases - are logged. Buy a 4g wireless personal router like these https://shop.ee.co.uk/dongles/pay-monthly-mobile-broadband/4gee-router/details#
If the MAC belongs to them, and/or they have installed software or certs on it or require a proxy, then they can see what you are doing.
It is unclear what you mean by "personal attachment" - that is not, to the best of my knowledge a security thing.  The best way to handle Internet in this environment might be to get a cellular connection which bypasses the corporate network altogther.  