You can replace IP with something else.  In fact, that's exactly what you're doing when you're using TCP over IPv6.  TCP is still TCP, but the IP is v6 instead of v4.
There are examples of communication systems in the military using TCP but not IP since the comm path is a serial-type connection that doesn't get routed thru routers, etc.  If you look at the a TCP packet before it's headered with IP fields it seems easily possible to not use IP if your "routing" protocol is different.
You can pair anything else that works with either protocol, but these two are so complementary it is just a yummy reliable way to transfer data and fill the tummy with internet data. It greases the tube to allow other dry foodstuff and data handshaking alike to support this pairing. But in no way is it exclusive. 
The reason why TCP/IP is such a common abbreviation (as opposed to, say UDP/IP or SCTP/IP) is because the two protocols were designed together, and in the original paper by Vint Cerf and Bob Kahn, the two concepts were combined together into a single protocol. Soon thereafter they were divided into IP to provide routing and TCP to provide flow control, multiplexing, error-detection, etc. It wasn't until six years later that UDP was introduced to provide a "lightweight" multiplexing layer without the rest of the overhead involved with TCP.
Still, TCP and IP are two separate things and completely and intentionally independent. The fact that TCP does not require IP is immediately apparent with the fact that TCP can run unmodified on both IPv4 and IPv6, which are two completely different protocols. 
With a little work, you could create a competing protocol to IP that would serve the same purposes, but it would probably have to contain most if not all of the same features, and would probably end up looking a lot like IP anyway. You could argue that extensions to IP (such as IPSec) are effectively alternate layer 3 protocols, so there you go.
AFAIK, nobody's created any other layer-3 protocols to work with TCP above them, but there's no reason you couldn't.