4.) You've got a responsibility to take it to your management types again. And again, and again. As many times as you can. Be polite. Be respectful, but come bearing what the cost to the business would be, if that meteor came down and you disappeared. 
The proper balance is where you don't get disturbed unnecessarily during sleep or vacation. Otherwise, you devalue yourself.
Simply put, (and hopefully) you aren't doing these things because of a good solid sense of morals and ethics. You know, the whole right from wrong sort of thing. Thus follows, if you have that, then you know that it's clearly your responsibility to document and prepare countermeasures against the worst-case scenerio. 
Documentation is a huge deal. Where I'm at, I have the opposite problem as you really, we recently put in a new POS/Order Tracking system (we're an engraving and promotions company) and I'm have the problem of getting people to write in the system the information about the customization. Mainly low-level people, as the manager will do it to her orders, because she used to do it to all orders, putting it into a VERY OLD access database. I so want to go paperless, and it's entirely possible in our business, but I just can't get people to type the work order information in, dammit.
Think of it this way. If you can avoid and forget worriyng about this and feel OK doing that, then why aren't you combing the accounting fileshares for company salaries to see what and how much more those management types are making than you. Why aren't you exploiting confidential corporate data for your own use? Why aren't you reading people's email?
This is not a responsibility that you can blow off, it's an ethical requirement of your job and comisserate to the position you hold as the proverbial `keeper and guardian of the keys to the kingdom'. 
2.) Once you've begun documenting everything, you should be in the writing mood. Time to start a side project detailing the last few years' changes made on the servers. Start building a change-management process, but go through it historically. Make sure you note how often you've changed those disks on some of those finicky servers. How much they cost, etc. These provide great metrics for you to rely on anyway, even if that meteor misses you and takes out the neighbor's dog instead.
3.) Implement a monitoring system that monitors and emails critical failures. What's that, you say? You have one already? Sweet! Now document it. How it works, what you monitor, why you monitor it.
So, keep plugging away at getting authorization. Or if you're feeling nice, do it on your own time. It might be a good thing for your future at the company, not to mention your successor.
1.) It's already been said but it needs repeating for reiteration. Document, document, document. Use excel spreadsheets, notepaper, quill and parchment if you have to. Several thousand mead notebooks like in the movie "Se7en" if need be. Either way, lay it out clear, concise and easy-to-read for whomever is going to have to replace you when you get hit by a meteor.
Don't document. Don't share knowledge with others. By documenting things, you make yourself less valuable. You will get paid less. Your bonus will be less. Your job security will be decreased. Why would you do this?