The first thing you should do is go to "Add a Package" in the left hand menu, fill this in choosing a package name and give as much resources as you have available to this package. 
Or I guess I could just setup one account under CPanel and use that the manage the things I need on the server. Any thoughts on the best way to go? If anyone has any links on how to setup CPanel in the way I was describing it would be appreciated. Thanks!
Once this is done go to "Create a New Account" and setup your domain choosing the package you just created and assigning a password and click Create.
I just purchased some VPS hosting and part of the package was the installation of CPanel. This is good because I have used CPanel before as a user with various hosting providers. However, what I didn't realize is that the CPanel setup I was given is for resellers.
It sounds like what you need to do is assign your single account full privileges in WHM (the reseller bit of cPanel that I guess you are logging into) and once this is done just login via cPanel. 
I am using this VPS as my own PHP/MySQL development platform and the only user would be me. I was hoping to get a CPanel "user" interface that would allow me to create/manage and files and setup a FTP account. I do have an SSH account but I am new to Linux and unsure how to even SSH to the box (don't flame me please). I was hoping to learn these things as I go while using CPanel to help me manage files for Apache.
When this is setup you will be able to login to your cPanel using the server IP on port 2082 in the format http://IP:2082 in your browser e.g. http://123.123.123.123:2082 entering the username and password for the account you just created, this will log you into the user level section of cPanel instead of the reseller WHM.
If you have purchased cPanel, I would suggest you stick with cPanel since it's much easier to manage and has excellent support. 
When I started running my own server, I found Webmin to be an excellent tool for administering the server. It's not as simple as cPanel to use, but infinitely cheaper. It's far easier than learning terminal commands, too.