The best you could do is to use some kind of checksum, MD5 hash, or similar, to be able to at least detect if something was changed on your hard drive. You can't stop anyone from modifying data on the drive if they have physical access, but you can make them promise not to do so, and explain to them that you will be able to detect if they did.
If every file on the hard drive was encrypted with a key, the data obviously could not be copied because it would not contain the unencrypted data. But if you somehow made the computer decrypt the data every time a read function is called from the computer, and encrypt the data every time a write function is called from the computer, I think it would work.
No. You can use a write protected medium to prevent editing, but if data is readable, one can always store the read stream someplace else to reproduce it.
I also am pretty sure that speed would be a very big problem if a hard drive worked this way, but who knows, maybe we will see it in the future. Also, the thing about this is that anyone who really wanted to get the data on this hard drive could if they knew what they were doing, by just removing the encryption call every time a write function is called, leading to an unencrypted hard drive.
You can go quantum and try to apply the no-cloning theorem, but since the read data will still be accessed in a classical way, the output can once again be copied.
In short: Don't waste time trying to protect readable data from copying and invest it in something useful instead. Going to the cinema, for example.
Although you can't let someone read your data and simultaneously prevent copying, there's a very simple way that you  can easily prevent them from editing it: don't give them the original.
Anyway, that is just an idea, and I really don't see that being a very good solution in the near future.
You can of course go some extra miles by requiring an online-connection enforcing decryption routine, but even then the user can simply log the servers response and fake the internet. 
If you copy your data to a separate hard drive and keep the original, clearly the recipient of the copy can't modify your original.