On the other hand, regex can be great ways to go with, especially if you can predict/adapt to the variability of the incoming data. In any case, they can be used to create your first training data. 
The key is in developing the regex rules. For my application, ie extracting data from Pubmed abstracts, I was essentially modelling my internal process of what I look for when scanning abstracts to determine relevance. 
I can also identify and extract specifics such as statistical data measures (eg p-values), gene names, sample population/patient characteristics, etc.
Ive been able to use a set of regex rules that feed a scoring system to profile Pubmed abstracts. For example, any instance of 'increased risk', 'increased association', etc., adds to an 'association' counter. Similarly, 'reduced risk' subtracts from the same counter. 
In scale, unless you are expecting to receive only a particular format, it is machine learning. For the first task, you should first parse the text and then scan it, probably with a Named Entity Recognition (NER) system to extract the information you are after. Having a NER system would work, as you can manually code different types of features that will greatly improve the performance. If you just want to perform candidate matching, then standard bag-of-word approaches would perform decently. 
For the second case, things are similar. You can rely in some syntactic analysis of the sentence to obtain the invitation and the time/day of the proposal. This again can be coupled with NER systems. Lately, for both tasks neural networks yielded promising approaches. But, in any case, you need labeled data, which can be cumbersome to obtain. 
Over time I found I was adding new phrases to the regex 'library' to capture instances where the rule system encountered text it did not profile correctly. 
Of course this approach is not valid for complex grammar but it lends itself to the predictable and formulaic format that abstracts are written in, and in particular to the discipline that I am interested in, ie molecular biology.   