Honestly, the main thing I do is keep current on patches, including being on the announce/security mailing list for any software I install that's not from the main OS vendor.
I track a several security focused resources, my favorites being Schneier and the Internet Storm Center (part of SANS).  Unfortunately, the longer I read Schneier, the more I find myself thinking, ‘Yeah, but....’ after reading an entry.  That being said, he makes an incredible cryptographer, and can certainly help you think with security in mind.  Dark Reading is another good resource for the security analyst, but will likely be hit/miss for general IT workers.
Otherwise, do what everybody else seems to be mentioning;  subscribe to the patch or announce list for anything you use vendor or otherwise.  I subscribe to the Secunia mailing list to keep a general eye on what's coming through.  Roughly once a week we are asking the SysAdmins whether or not the patches have been applied from vulnerabilities advertised through Secunia.
It really depends on how interested in security you are. Are you just wanting to monitor for when assets you have in house have security issues? Or do you really like security?
Someone else mentioned SecurityFocus, but for more general security related issues (not specific to IT), I recommend Schneier on Security.  His blog touches on IT security, but also on other security topics as well.  I find that some of the more general issues he discusses helps me to be more aware of security in general, which carries over into IT operations.
Anything else starts falling onto the "more effort than it's worth" side of the cost vs. benefit analysis.  I could do my own custom patch, but I'm more likely to break something than if I wait for the vendor to release a tested update.
I'll also shamelessly plug the OSVDB (Open Source Vulnerability Database), a project of the Open Security Foundation. It's a great place to get vulnerability information combined from a variety of sources (milw0rm, Bugtraq, secunia, CVE, etc.)
There's always new threats.  Do you really have the time to keep up with every one of them?  Do you even care if you're not running the program in question in the affected configuration?
Concentrate on providing the smallest attack surface you can, along with the smallest reasonable attack window.  In other words: only run what you need to, firewall everything you can, and keep current on patches.