Edit: If Disk Part does not list a physical disk that corresponds to your SD card (not a volume with a letter, but a disk with a number; i.e. when you use the "LIST DISK" command) -- then you have a hardware or driver issue.  Try it with another SD Card reader.
I recommend also creating a new partition there to help windows find the device ("Create Partition Primary"), but I'm not sure it's actually necessary. -- When you're all done, eject and reinsert the SD card, Windows should offer to format it and it'll be all fresh and new again.
A Side Note (The Security Implications): If your worried about security at all, don't leave boot to cd as first option enabled, and if your smart you would password protect your bios. Just some food for thought. 
If you are comfortable with the command line though, you can do this manually without any third party software -- (I find this method to be easier than downloading some GUI program, personally, but to each their own):
The Raspberry PI website recommends using the SD Card Formatter 4.0 Utility, it's a GUI utility and it's simple to use, you can download it here: https://www.sdcard.org/downloads/formatter_4/
Once you know the disk # that you want, type: "Select Disk #" -- replace "#" with the number of the actual disk (that you noted previously).
Find the one that corresponds to your SD card -- be very sure -- if you're not sure, you can try "List Volume" to see if that helps you narrow it down.
Also, I have noticed on my mac, after I destroyed the debian kernal trying to get my ds18b20 temp sensor to read I was unable to reformat the sd card because it was write protected. If this happens to anyone, use a usb connected adapter instead of the integrated macbook pro one and it will work just fine.
I would recommend using gparted. I don't know what kind of user you are, novice, power, etc. The easiest way would be to download the live cd image, and burn it to a cd. If your using Windows 7, insert the blank disk and right click the downloaded iso. Then it should be something like "burn image..." (I'm not on a Windows 7 machine right now). Depending on how your PC is set up you might have to change the boot order. What we want is the machine to load the cd and not windows. Most computers will give you an option of "Press any key to boot to cd.." on boot up, if the boot order is setup that way. To change the boot order to allow live cd booting, on startup it is normally del or f12. Read the boot up screen, and it will tell you how to get in the bios. Then change the boot priority to CD first, then hard drive.