Depending on how the network is set up, you can either have each box be the gateway router for each dorm, or for performance sake (if you can) just have each box set up as a transparent bridging firewall and let your (I assume) better already installed router do the routing. Of course, all this depends on the way the network is laid out. Without additional info there's not a lot of advice I can give.
Ah, but to allow web browsing I'm sure the students would enjoy the use of DNS to resolve their web site URLs. Then they'll want HTTPS support of course, so they can do secure logins to their courseware site or bank. Oh then....a slippery slope you have here my friend! But there's nothing to be done about that is there?
Off the cuff though, I would say that what you're trying to achieve is perfectly possible. If you can tear yourself away from the GUI-ness of Pfsense then I'd fully recommend installing OpenBSD on the machines. It's pretty simple to do what you want and you'll unlock a lot of power.
I'd recommend openbsd and pf, especially considering the older hardware you will be deploying. That said, if you're not technically minded enough to set this up on your own there are distros like pfsense, you'll just have to deal with a little sluggishness in the web interface.
You'll probably want to configure the machines as transparent bridges. This will enable you to slot them straight in with your current setup. You could use this as the first test to see whether they're up to the job - drop them in as plain old bridges with no filtering and see if they cope. If for some reason you find that they don't, then you can pull them out with reasonably little disruption.
Why not use a firewall on a cd like Sentry or redwall? Then allow only outgoing connections to port 80 (or whatever you want). These solutions are usually pretty easy to use, with a web interface.
As far as blocking things go, I'd be careful in college dorms, and check regulation to ensure that you can do this before implementing anything.
Then the next step would be to introduce filtering with PF. Then rate limiting with ALTQ. I'd then suggest throwing NET-SNMP (with PF MIBs) and a monitoring package like Cacti to keep an eye on the utilisation and performance.