I have a Windows 2008 server connecting to an iSCSI target on an OpenSolaris box (yay ZFS!). I'd like to create a private network between the 2 boxes that is totally separate of my Windows domain.
Would it be possible to configure the firewall on that specific interface to filter outgoing active directory traffic, after taking the steps outlined by therulebookman? 
What is the best way to configure the additional network adapter on the Windows machine so it doesn't think the new subnet is part of the Windows domain? I want to make sure Windows doesn't magically start spewing active directory communications over the private wire and that it doesn't start poisoning the DNS with IPs from the private network.
With either of these methods you would be specifying that any traffic bound for the 10.0.0.0 subnet must use 10.x.x.x (insert actual IP address of public link here), and any traffic bound for the 192.168.0.0 subnet must use 192.168.x.x (insert actual IP address of private link here). All of these methods can be used together if you want to ensure additional safeguards to prevent cross-contamination.
Probably the easiest method would be to use a “Public Link/Private Link” configuration similar to clustered servers. The public link would be the connection to your Windows domain, and the private link would connect to the NAS. The trick in this situation is to configure the private link with a completely dissimilar IP address from the subnet used in you Windows domain. For example if your Windows network runs on the 10.0.0.0 subnet, you might use the 192.168.0.0 subnet for the private link. You also want to use the bare minimum amount of information when configuring the connection. You should only need the IP address and the subnet mask.
From my own experience, all I've needed to do to segregate the traffic is just keep a default gateway off of the second (SAN) NIC. Windows Server 2008 is smart enough to recogniza the "Domain" network and route all domain traffic accordingly. If you look at the NIC status, when WS2K8 is doing it's thing, the domain NIC will actually display the DN of the Domain Network. Your SAN NIC will say "Unidentified".