You really need to be proactive here.  There's no reliable way to detect rootkits on machines, you thus need to prevent them getting there in the first place and find ways to detect them upon entry (e.g. via tripwire and locked down interfaces).
The most effective way to determine whether your running system is compromised is to use Second Look.  It will verify the kernel and all the running software in memory to make sure they are consistent with what the distribution vendor shipped.  This is a far better approach than rkhunter, chkrootkit, etc, that look for artifacts of specific known infections.  Second Look makes no assumptions about the integrity of the operating system, so you don't need to have used or installed it before an incident.
RKhunter, Tripwire etc are great, but really only of benefit if they were installed before the incident - this is because they are great for detecting whether key files have been changed.  If you install RKHunter now and run it, it will detect the inclusion of many rootkits, but it won't detect any backdoors an attacker opened up in the OS or the applications you use.
To be frank, it is probably less work to do what JJ suggested and rebuild than making absolutely sure the computer hasn't been compromised.  It's the data that is valuable, not the OS and config (apart from the man hours in setting that up).
For example, you could sneak onto a computer, create a new user, give them SSH and sudo permissions, and then clean up afterwards leaving a legitimate looking config in place, and no rootkits - then come back later and do your evil.
Best thing to do is look at what ports have services listening on them, then look at the configuration of all those services and make sure they are all legitimate.  Then look at your firewall configuration and lock down ports that you don't need, both in and outbound.  Then install RKHunter etc to see if some script-kiddie dropped a root kit in there messily.
[1]: http://www.sans.org/reading_room/whitepapers/linux/linux-rootkits-beginners-prevention-removal_901"Linux Rootkits Beginners"
If you think a machine has been exploited in any way, you really need to reinstall - there's no guaranteed way to clean it up short of a reinstall.  By far the safest option.
I know this answer isn't what you want to hear but here we go anyways. There are some tools that can check the system the best way to ensure the system is clean is to wipe the server and rebuild. I would do the following: