If the volume doesn't exist as a file, this might not be nearly as easy.  Also, I don't know how to program use of VSS, but I understand that it does snapshotting for use when backing up. (I don't know too much about the details).
I made two shell scripts to mount and unmount the Truecrypt container on the Linux box. Those scripts are being called remotely via ssh from the Windows machine:
It might actually be unnecessary to do this, as it would appear that rsync can efficiently do an incremental backup of a truecrypt container without having to look inside it.  Note: I'm assuming that the motivation for doing this is to get the benefits of an incremental copy, which may not be the intention of the asker...
and also a reference in this comment thread: http://digg.com/news/technology/TrueCrypt_Tutorial_Truly_Portable_Data_Encryption
I've been trying to do something similar.  I have Truecrypt containers on my laptop which I want to sync with a location on my NAS.  Because I want two way sync I've been using Unison rather than rsync but Unison implements the rsync protocol so should be similar in operation.
I've used the idea of synching the TC container whilst it was unmounted and relying on the fact that TC only changes portions of the container if small numbers of data changes are made.  However, the issue I find is that due to the size of the container (20GB or more) it still takes forever to sync as the destination (the NAS) which has a fairly low powered CPU has to checksum the entire container file to decide whether it has changed.  The actual transfer is fairly quick but there is a long period beforehand where it chews CPU.
Put this batch file into the task scheduler, e.g. with a daily schedule. Be sure to adjust username, remote host, ssh port, Truecrypt container password, and of course the backup paths. Sorry but I could not bring myself to clean this up more after having wasted too much time already...
I suppose YMMV and 'true' rsync may be better than Unison in this regard.  But I would go with the synching of the contents of the containers rather than the containers themselves.
So, instead I've moved to the other approach that deepc has been working on, mounting the container at the remote end and then synching the contents.  This is much quicker with a sync taking in the order of a few seconds if nothing has changed (as opposed to >45 mins with the other approach).  The only think that was holding me up from this approach originally was that I couldn't get TC compiled on my NAS (Arm based) but I've solved that problem now and it's all working really well now.
If your truecrypt volume exists as a file in Windows, why not simply copy the file to the Linux machine?  Then it is encrypted in transit and already encrypted when it gets to the destination.  Add to that the fact that you don't ever have to use the credentials...
This is answers the original question. There is only one minor issue: special characters in filenames on Windows are mangled on Linux, with ext2 being used in the TC container on Linux. I tried all combinations for the --iconv parameter I could think of but to no avail. Seems I have to live with that - unless some brave soul has read until here, knows the answer, and enlightens me in a comment ;-)  (NTFS in the container is not an option)
If the Windows machine supports VSS, you might be able to get a copy of even a mounted filesystem that is as consistent as it would be if you shut down the machine by pulling the plug.
Meanwhile I have worked out any issues and have a solution which works for me since a few weeks. In case anybody is interested I am posting the details here. This article by Troy Johnson has helped along the way.