I had planned on installing IIS as well but having the actual sites on the 2TB drive. The ulitmate goal is to have just windows on the SSD and everything else on the HDD.
On my system my system partition is about 30Gb. I uninstall media centre and media player. Have a small swap file (2Gb), disable hibernation and system restore. Turn off indexing. Relocate all personal folders onto a data drive. Depending on your RAM you probably have a big swap file and hiberfile - I'd look at those first. That 30Gb does include about 6Gb of program files though so you should be able to get a clean install to around 24Gb, probably less.
Have you checked your Windows Temp folder?  How about your Downloads folder?  Have you run the Disk Cleanup utility?
My windows install was shrunk massively when i disabled paging! that will give you back at least around 6GB - 10GB. If you 16Gb of RAM then paging wont be needed at all. Disable the hibernation as advised above and the system restore and you will have shaved a fair bit off it! 
I have just built a computer with a 60GB SSD and a 2TB HDD. After installing windows 7 home premium, the drivers, chrome, and running windows update a few times it now only has 11GB left on the SSD. This is after doing disk cleanup and removing all but the last backup image. The only windows features installed are the ones by default during a clean install. I have since removed all the games via add/remove features. I've also made sure that the recycling bin is empty. So I'm still left with only 11GB of space left. I have 16GB of ram and was hoping that there would be at least 16GB free for virtual memory. The box that windows 7 came in says it requires 16GB free disk space.
Linky This is link to disk analyser tool where you can what is taking up all the space on the system. From there you can delete and tweak your system. Thats what i did anyway. I only use windows for games. So i dont need much space on SSD. Got my games on HDD.
You've definitely got a problem.  I recently installed Windows 7 Ultimate, SQl Server Express and Visual Studio Express and the total on my hard drive (and I haven't really cleaned up) is about 24GB.