I've been given access to a share on a Windows Server 2003 SP1 system (10.a.bbb.ccc) which is a file and printer server, and regularly large files get copied to that share.  However, occasionally such a copy fails.  When reproducing this issue using Robocopy (on 10.xxx.yy.zzz), I get something like
Given that ZeroWindow is a symptom of the TCP receive buffer being full, I'm willing to bet the problem is something either consuming 100% CPU on the server or something causing grossly excessive network traffic into the server and locking everything up.
TCP Zero Window means the receiving host is overwhemled. It has told the sending host to stop sending data, as it needs need some time to process what it's already got.
My question: Is this a known issue with Windows shares?  What can be investigated/debugged/traced on the file server?  Are there specific settings we need to look at or experiment with?
Also, would it be worth experimenting with ROBOCOPY's /IPG parameter, ane perhaps the /R: and /W: (retry and wait) parameters?
One other possibility is bufferbloat in an intermediate device's TCP implementation, if that device is modifying the packets it relays in any way (i.e. NAT). Do your transfers spike and drop in transfer rate, by chance?
I agree with @suprjami and would like to offer this possible avenue of exploration: rather than the server's disks being too slow, consider that they may either be failing (typical hard drives freeze for about 8 seconds per bad cluster read), severely fragmented, running out of space (causing severe fragmentation and heavy disk thrashing), or you may have a heavily CPU-bound or disk-bound task on the machine starving everything else, including the network and disk subsystems. I recommend checking the server's Event Viewer for disk errors and pulling up Task Manager or Process Explorer with some columns to show page faults, CPU usage, and I/O read bytes and write bytes, and see what the numbers are doing.
Before looking at TCP tuning parameters (you can tweak the TCP stack on Windows, but 99.9% of the time, it's auto-scaling works fine), could you give a bit more background?  e.g.: what's the spec of the receiving server, are both client and server on the same layer 2 network, what speed are the NICs running at, Etc.
dumpcap + Wireshark show that when this happens, in the middle of copying suddenly the server does not accept any data anymore on TCP port 445, by setting the window size to zero:
It sounds like the disks in the server are too slow, and the client eventually gives up and times the connection out.