Your ONLY choice is to use something LIKE Cloudflare - distributd proxies that will do the check and mitigate the damage. Hide behind someone strong enough to take the load.
During a DDoS attack even when you successfully stop it at your datacenter the link between you and your ISP will still be saturated and traffic brought to a halt.  
To prevent attacks like this consider using a network testing service like Ixia that includes security testing, network infrastructure and wifi testing
NO chance. DDOS do not have a small number of Source IP's and you would have to distinguish real and fake traffic. And there is no infrastructure on ISP level to communicate this, including providing some sort of authentication (so it is not abused).
In this case what is the best way to communicate to the ISP to block the source IP addresses at the ISP level, surely there must be a better way than to email them or call them?
In many cases, you're resigned to a "Remotely Triggered Black Hole" (RTBH) or a "null-route". This effectively drops all incoming traffic to the destination prefix as soon as possible to prevent saturating downstream links. It's possible to have a BGP speaker on your end talk to your ISP and trigger this automatically without interacting with a person at your ISP.
The genius of DDoS attacks stems from the fact that the traffic comes from potentially Legitimate IPs of real customers.
Blocking large number of IP addresses is not always desirable. By blocking large number of IP addresses due to a large DDoS, you could be blocking a large number of legitimate users who might share those IP address as an undesirable side effect (e.g. Tor, proxy users, universities, shared household, ISPs that use NAT to save public IP addresses).
However, depending on what you're being hit with and how much your ISP likes you, you might be able to solve the issue without completely black-holing your hosts. You should determine what the attack traffic consists of and if you can implement simple ACLs to filter this upstream. A great example of this is when DNS/SNMP/NTP/etc reflection attacks were common a handful of years ago the rules to filter these attacks were very simple (drop udp 53 inbound, etc). I was able to talk to my upstreams (at the time Telia and Hurricane Electric) and get them to implement these simple rules closer to their core where the pipes were much larger.
Usually DDoS attacks originate from a hacker in control of a botnet or network of zombie machines. The attacker will issue a command to all the bots instructing them to make requests for a particular resource / URI. The large number of requests overwhelms the server and takes it down.
In other words, there is no one IP to block. Or two, or three, or even four.. There are hundreds or thousands of unique IPs.