Long, long ago computers didn't have that sort of protection which is why the old advice was to remove your floppies from the machine before turning it off.
This acts as a deadman switch for the computer, if the signal drops the machine immediately shuts down (like what would happen if you held the power switch) as this is deemed less destructive than potentially flaky operation of the electronics causing uncommanded write operations.
But when my motherboard blew up, I reused the smps in my college project for making a refrigenerator using peltier device and there I noticed that the crosair SMPS used to shutdown if I short circuited the output or use to put heavy load on it, but it never blew up while the chinese ones never used to shutdown but used to burn up under load.
I had similar experience few year back when my SMPS blew up, I was in college and had less money hence I bought a chinese SMPS. It used to work, but as soon as the CPU temperature used to go up and CPU fans used to kick in, the system use to start hanging and sometime I also used to get Blue Screen. At first I was not able to figure out that this is happening due to SMPS, but after I temporarily swapped the SMPS with my friend's, My system got OK, but the new SMPS got burned in my friends System. The local vendor has given me 1 month warrenty but was reluctant to honor it, but finally he gave me a used SMPS, I took it but the system used to reboot endlessly, the problem this time was that the smps was not able to provide enough power to even start the system.  Later I bought a crosair SMPS and every thing went fine after that.
The power supply detects an overload condition and shuts down. There is no provision to negotiate power requirements.
Running a PSU over capacity for short and long term can have all kinds of effects. It mainly depends on the components involved. Power supply can be cut off (fuse, temperature cut off), parts can melt (or age quicker) or the power becomes noisy, voltage drops (or raises). The effect this has on the system ranges from shut downs to (more nasty) bit errors and failed calculations (and as a result of that corrupted data or blue screens). 
In the case of the PC there's one more factor at work:  The power supply is sending out a power-is-good signal.  During startup it has a certain period of time in which to establish this (as of course at the very instant of startup the power won't be good.)