Trend Micro also offers hosted email solutions, in addition to their product that sits on an Exchange Box (WFBS Advanced), though my experience is all with the latter.
It will use an existing mail server to drop reports and alarms, with a small amount of adjustability in threshold levels.
Our current install (version 4) of ESET NOD32 seems to be working a treat, it just sits in the background and doesn't interfere too much - you get a quick start-up popup, and the occasional taskbar message saying an update has occurred, but that's it. Performance on our oldest machines (P4s with 512MB of RAM) is acceptable. Have heard some grumblings about the latest release, but no experience of it myself.
I'm using AVG Network Edition across a group of machines that all require scanning at different times.  I often find that the clients ignore some of the settings you set within the admin panel such as different schedules for groups of machines.  I've contacted AVG support regarding this and they constantly go in circles and are unable to provide any reasonable support.  For this reason, I do not recommend AVG.
We use Symantec A/V here (150 PCs), and have the A/V console on the same server that we use for aggregating Windows Updates.  I wouldn't recommend it for any smaller networks, because it does require management.
Centrally managed may be overkill for this small a network.  The console requires some admin, so with only a dozen computers you won't save much time over a visit to each machine to click the update button.
Decent spam detection/removal, excellent virus detection/removal, and better prevention of trojans when the Reputation Service is used (browser URL monitor).
It is loaded on the server, licensed and administered centrally.  The administration console runs from Internet Explorer (ActiveX controls), so any computer able to access the server via TCP can be used to launch the console.
I also have had to clean up after multiple Symantec explosions, and a few Trend Micro explosions, and Trend Micro is by FAR the easiest to tame.  Symantec can easily take an hour to clean out the registry.  I've even been able to recover a TM installation that crashed (thick dust bunny lodged in CPU fan creating thermal event), just by starting the install again, uninstalling, then reinstalling.  Symantec would have been a nightmare...
Trend Micro's Worry Free Business Security 5.1 (soon to be version 6) is a great replacement, in my opinion.