I can leave everything as it is. To make adjustments I have to log into different panels, and for some registrars I have to email the changes.
In the past several years doing web development I often times needed to buy new domain names. I changed registrars a lot also so over the years I have multiple domain names scattered over different registrars all over the world. 
This will cost a lot, about 10 usd per domain name. But if I can find a registar where I have full control over DNS this is worth looking at.
I put small domains into freedns.ws but it seem to be not too stable nowadays. For a bigger projects that need to be always online I'm just using two own DNS servers in different locations.
There is no reason to leave the DNS at the registrar, especially if that registrar has less than satisfactory DNS management facilities available to you. Separate the registration from the DNS. Either set up your own DNS servers or use one of the many DNS services already available on the Internet. I have no recommendations, as I run my own, but this aspect has been discussed several times on this site and answers have included suggestions.
Personally, I use GoDaddy: http://www.godaddy.com/default.aspx only for my domain registration/management. At work we use BulkRegister: http://www.bulkregister.com/
Been trying to find a good cheap DNS hosting but failed at that, decided that own servers could be cheaper.
Now I want to bring a little structure into my business, and I am at the point that I want to be able to have easy control over my domain names in a convenient way.
Does anyone have an idea on what the best way is to give structure on this. I have made some suggestions maybe you can comment on them for me.
I would recommend consolidating all your domains into one registrar, but don't then opt for hosting with them as you'll effectively be putting all your eggs into one basket.
Can you give me some comments on how you are doing things now. Maybe also which registrar you prefer on doing things. 