I am utilizing a generic WORKGROUP on my home network with Windows 10 Pro machines, and the key is to configure your settings within the Network and Sharing Center in the Change advanced sharing settings interface. I have included three screenshots (below) of the Advanced sharing settings interface from a Windows 10 Professional machine on my home network. If you configure your home workgroup in a similar fashion to mine, it should work the same way. Notice that both network discovery as well as file and printer sharing are turned on within the Private network profile, but they are turned off for the Public network profile. I also configured Turn on password protected sharing for all networks. Ultimately, everything works together quite well.  
For your specific needs, you could easily setup your "host" system and then create a shortcut on each "client" machine to a share such as this:  
Setting up identical users on each PC does work, but you should really be working with the Credential Manager in the Control Panel. First of all, a warning - if any of your PCs still think that they are connect to a HomeGroup, then you should get them to leave the HomeGroup, otherwise you will find that any changes that you make in the Credential Manager on that PC will be overwritten after a reboot, and set back to the HomeGroup settings. When you open the Credential Manager, you need to select the Windows Credentials tab. Basically in the Credential Manager, you get to provide one user code and password for each PC on your network that you would like to connect to. Note that it must be a user code that has a password, but it doesn't need to be a user code that actually logs on to that PC. Once you have done this, that will give your PC access to the other PC, and I am assuming that you have already setup the rest of the file sharing. If you have any problems with this, then please don't hesitate to get back to me.
Although the HomeGroup capability has been removed, sharing between Windows 10 machines is still relatively simple. It works perfectly on my home network utilizing Microsoft accounts, but the same configuration will also work with local accounts as well provided that they exist on every machine with the same user ID/password combination.  