You can run a usability experiment where you give a set of test persons the same task, for example: "Import 20 RAW photos from a camera, edit them, burn them to a CD and make a slideshow" (of course, way more detailed, but you get the hang of it).
The problem is that all those test persons should not be biased towards either platform and should have no experience with either one. Where do you find such people? It's hard to imagine you would find someone who hasn't used either. And if you want to find people with experience in both, how do you define "equally experienced"?
How to test this? I am unsure. As for monitors I think that comes down to personal opinion. Look at two (side by side if possible) and see what your eye sees. If you prefer with one over the other go with it. 
I would suggest go for Windows. You can use image-editing apps from number of different vendors with one better over the other in various ways. For example, MS latest release for Camara Codec Pack now supports raw format directly from (number of) cameras from various vendors which can further be accessed in Windows Live Photo Gallery. More details on this here.
You could obviously also test professionals in the same manner. And as you can see, even in this very very simplified example, you run into problems that run out of hand when you want to do a real "Is Mac better than PC" test.
Is mac better than PC? In my opinion no. The speeds are comparable. For me it comes down to how many other programs do you put on the computer and have running while working on photo/video. 
This experiment would then measure how long it takes for the task to be completed, and how satisfied the test persons were.
Then those people obviously have never seen a good monitor. Glossy monitors tend to accentuate  colors and contrast, therefore giving us the impression of a more vivid picture. On the other hand, forget those for editing videos or photos. Their color representation is nowhere near perfect and a professional in video/photo editing would never ever use a glossy monitor.
Then again, the only difference (so to speak, "variable") in your experiment should be the platform (i.e. Mac or Windows-based PC), so that's another problem. You would have to run the test with exactly the same software and hardware to be able to say: "Mac is better than PC, given the same software and the same task, and the same people". If the software changed, you would be bound to say: "Mac is better than PC, but we used different software, so, it's not a good comparison". Same for hardware.