So, if you look in your /opt/google/chrome/you'll find a PepFlash directory, where inside there is a .so file (libpepflashplayer.so). You have to delete that folder and create a new folder called plugins where you put inside the libflashplayer.so downloadable from the link above.
When I clicked on the link to update the plugin it took me to a page that said: If you are using the Google Chrome browser, Adobe® Flash® Player is built-in but has been disabled.  I searched some and found another page from Google that says that I should be using libflashplayergc.so as the plug-in that is integrated with Chrome.
However, I don't see that plugin in my system.  My question is, is this something that I should see?  Or is this plugin only for 32-bit systems and so I need to continue using the Adobe system plugin libflashplayer.so?  
When I install flash-plugin-11.2.202.233-release the result is the web page that has flash on it will show it on most applications that are located in the same location (as flash) and the flash material will become a live background image on those applications. Does not matter which flash site. I have 9 desktops and dual monitors.
Do you get that message with some specific site or every site that has flash? Can you watch youtube videos or play games/video on newgrounds.com?
I have installed Fedora 16 a number of times and when I add Google Chrome (Ver 19.0.1084.46-135956) it has out of five times only installed the supposedly included libflashplayer once. This on new systems with new drives. Would be nice to know what controls that. (From google-chrome repo.)
If you don't want to delete the PepFlash dir, you must anyway have the libflashplayer.so as I told you (the 11.2 version, 'cause the 11.5 does not work in linux as the Adobe explain), but you have to disable the libpepflashplayer.so.
I'm using Google Chrome on a Ubuntu 10.04 x64 system and I just finished doing an update which got me version 19.0.1084.46 of Chrome.  Now for the first time I see a message that says Adobe Flash Player was blocked because it is out of date when I open up a website that has flash.