If you heat a thing up, it will conduct heat to the other side and to all other things in contact. Insulators conduct extremely badly, conductors very well.
Convection (moving of the heated medium) will help: install the wire in a larger diameter tube (an inch? depends on length and bends) and make sure there is at least a small draft able to get through. If you have an altitude difference, you can get it to work by itself, otherwise put a ventilator.
Don't take all this as overly dismissive - I've personally taped RJ12 to the outside of building ducts as a quick way to route in an extra phone - however an old style cast iron system does not sound good. A simple test would be, with the heating jacked up, can you hold onto the pipe for long without getting a burn?
When we install Ethernet for telephone or internet in  utility closets telephone and Ethernet cables are always 1 to 3 feet
You put some shielding that is not transparent for heat. Any metal foil will do and a lot of other things. The shield must not be in contact with the heated element and cable because of
Personally I wouldn't run a cable like that without some kind of insulation/heat shield, and I would only do that after looking for alternate ways of routing the cable.
Electricity doesn't work well with heat (heat negatively affects conductivity) - Dave Cheney already pointed out the specs regarding acceptable temperates for Cat5e.
And most importantly, you could start a fire. Either from the plastic jacket heating up enough that it catches fire (burning wires are great - it spreads through walls, and releases toxic gases) or after the cable frays, the exposed wire could touch the metal and short, resulting in an electrical fire (the fact that there is water involved isn't great either).
To sum up: as already said I'd try to find another route. If not possible, then put an insulated shield (mineral wool/foam + aluminium foil is available) between and put cable in a large diameter tube to allow for draft to cool the cable.
Personally I think it will be ok if you lag the cable and possibly by a good quality Cat5e or Cat6 cable.
The cables plastic jacket is likely to melt over time (or rather it will soften up just enough that it begins to fray apart under it's own weight), exposing the wires inside. This will likely result in packet loss over the cable.
Even if you have insulator and shield in place, eventually there will be enough heat slowly coming through to heat your cable. You need to have some, at least minimal, exchange of the air around cable or some other means of getting the heat away continuously. 