With Maildir, retrieving specific mails is faster, and has no issues due to file locking or network file systems (Example: With Maildir, you can store different mail folders in different NFS shares, this cannot be achieved with Mbox). You can have issues with Maildir when a filesystem is not efficient handling a large number of files.
Mbox is fast when searching a text inside a mailbox and appending a new mail into the mail file, but it's prone to mail corruption and may have problems with network file systems. Also, File locking may be an issue.
Anyway maildir is newer and preferrable format due to the lot of improvements comparatively to maibox. Maildir has an index for each folder that allow to control duplicates, expiration times and even full-text search. Also, maildir is significantly faster on a huge pile of messages. Dovecot can easily operate maildir with 300k messages in it without any visible slowdown. Mailbox such big is a problem itself. Also, most modern POP/IMAP servers has a lot of utilities for common tasks in large infrastructure.
I understand that you need an scalable solution, before you choose one or another, be sure to give a read to this document: (Even if you are not using Courier)
Postfix does not care, mostly. It just stuffs the mail into some file. The intersting part comes when you want to fetch the mail from the machine via IMAP (or POP3). Most IMAP-servers (I tried) prefer Maildirs, as these are easier extendable with various meta-data the IMAP-server could want, while still maintaining a basic "this is a Maildir" structure, so you can replace the IMAP server without breaking too much (you will obviously lose the meta-data, which also includes mail flags, so you should read migration docs of the IMAP server if you want to really switch).
Don't manage mailboxes from postfix. Never. Redirect messages for delivery via POP/IMAP server that has appropriate functionality. In case of dovecot there is dovecot-lda aka deliver that do everything and much more, like user-controlled message filtering, quota management, autoreplying and so on.