Sorry if my question is long, I'd really appreciate if you could share with me any experience you have had with learning AI.
This is a hell good book. Adrian is going to make black friday sale, so it's great chance to pick it up. It's step by step guide through deep learning with math, intuition and code. It focuses mostly on computer vision, but it'll give you nice start.
For sure you need to learn some maths.  However you should also make an effort to gain some broader engineering and science skills.  There are far too many people going into computer science and all they know is a few programming languages and math. The end result is a very boring person with little in the way of creativity to do anything new. Take a year out when you are 18 or 19 to travel the world.   
First of all I know the question may be not suitable for the website but I'd really appreciate it if you just gave me some pointers.
Neural Networks are not a great introductory model, simply because of the complexity that you describe.  If you're trying to get your feet wet, boosted decision trees tend to perform well by comparison, and are a bit more intuitive.  If you want a description on this method, and are already familiar with Coursera, The University of Washington has an introductory course on data science which explains it quite well.
Also what other things would be helpful in the path of me learning AI and machine learning? do other techniques (like SVM) also require strong math?
I'm a 16 years old programmer, I've had experience with many different programming languages, a while ago I started a course at Coursera, titled introduction to machine learning and since that moment i got very motivated to learn about AI, I started reading about neural networks and I made a working perceptron using Java and it was really fun but when i started to do something a little more challenging (building a digit recognition software), I found out that I have to learn a lot of math, I love math but the schools here don't teach us much, now I happen to know someone who is a math teacher do you think learning math (specifically calculus) is necessary for me to learn AI or should I wait until I learn those stuff at school?