If you made poor contact with one of the wires during crimping, it's possible that it could be intermittently disconnecting.  Theoretically, I suppose it's possible that variations in temperature could cause the wire to expand or contract just enough to make or break the connection.  If in doubt, just re-crimp it.
If the wrongness is that the crimping job was poor, it is possible that breaks in communication (leading to apparent "disconnections") can occur.  This could be the issue.
The actual pinout is supposed to be orange-white orange, green-whte blue, blue-whte gree, brown-white brown. https://www.trangosys.com/cat-5-ethernet-cable-standards-pin-out-assignments/ I'm assuming that you used a crimping tool. Also, make sure that your cable is not bent anywhere as that can cause issues. If you ever strip an ethernet cable, you will notice that the wires inside are not all he same as in the wires wrapped tightly or loosely. There is a reason for that. Also, you don't want to pass over any power supplies or ballasts as it can cause data transfer issues. There is another way that many people aren't aware of. A device that plugs into the power outlet and uses your existing electrical wiring to pass on data. We've been using this for over a year and a half and the connection is terrific. http://www.tp-link.com/us/home-networking/network-extenders/powerline  I don't know if this is useful to you or not. Hope so.
If you have the wires in a wrong order, you're likely to just simply get no connection.  (Although, due to Auto-MDIX supporting crossover cable, there is at least one possibility of a flip in color order which may work perfectly fine with a bunch of equipment.)
In any case, I recommend crimping again in any of the correct orders (doesn't really matter which one you use, as long as the pairs match up correctly).
If you don't match up the pairs correctly, like you did, you'll get crossover talk between the pairs, and they'll also be more susceptible to external electromagnetic noise. Add to that possibly bad crimping, and you have an unstable connection that may be the reason for the dropouts.
If in doubt, measure: Your OS should provide information about the number of hardware errors your ethernet hardware detected.
The "cable order" is important: Ethernet uses 4 pairs of wire to transmit data, and each pair uses differential signaling. In the ethernet cable, the pairs are wound around each other at a slightly different number of twists per length unit, and that reduces crossover talk between them. 
Where I live, I've talked to computer people and found a bunch said they can crimp their own ends, with confidence in the results they create.  If you doubt the results of your abilities, you may want to ask around.