While I'm sure no one knows the answer to your question at this time, I can summarize all the information there is on the Internet regarding this, as I have done a good amount of research into this topic.
Assuming you have a Retail License, there are a few answers from the Internet. Before that, though, I would like to quote the Section 4 Part B of the Terms for Windows 10.
In this case, there is no time limit, and also no machine limit. Basically, once you "take" the Windows 10 upgrade from a Retail License, you have it forever. The Microsoft Server will associate your key with the fact that you have accepted the Windows 10 Free Upgrade offer. In other words, you are now able to install your Windows 7 key on any machine (even after 2016.07.29), and then be able to upgrade to Windows 10. Note here, you have to go from Windows 7 to 10, you cannot just install Windows 10 and use your Windows 7 key. Also note, the source of this scenario is the same as that of Scenario 2, and the poster of this information is also the same guy! So I'm not sure what he's cooking. But he is a Microsoft Rep.
Your only real option would be to install Windows 7 Service Pack 1 and then upgrade that installation to Windows 10.  Once activated you could in theory migrated your current installation to the new machine if you wanted with the appropriate software.
At this time, I cannot find the source of this. But I'm sure you've already seen this. Apparently, you can use your Windows 7 key to install Windows 10. But some people claims this does not work. One possibility (if this scenario is correct) is that you have to upgrade to Windows 10 through Windows 7 at least once, and THEN you can use the key. I have not tested this, and I have not seen other people test this (correct me in the comments and I will update). It is very unlikely this is the correct scenario though.
For completion, I will include here the answer by Microsoft Rep basically re-quoting the Terms in a different way. He states that if you upgraded from a retail license, you retain the transfer rights. But he does not specify how to go about doing so (and that is the question we all want to know...).
If your Windows 7 license was an OEM license then you will need to go out and purchase a retail installation of Windows 10.  You could at that point migrated your current installation and just change the license to the key you purchase.  This is a more technical and time consuming process then the solution I recommend.
In this case, there is no time limit. You can upgrade to Windows 10 from your Windows 7 key, provided that you do it on the latest machine that Windows 10 is installed on before 2016.07.29. In other words, after 2016.07.29, the machine that the upgraded Windows 10 is installed on will be able to upgrade to Windows 10 should you install Windows 7 on it again. However, this will NOT apply to any other machine you install that same key of Windows 7.
Basically, you are free to install your retail key of Windows 7 to any machine and upgrade it to Windows 10 before 2016.07.29. After that, the machine you have the upgraded version of Windows 10 will still be usable, but you can no longer upgrade to Windows 10 from your Windows 7 key. That is, if you install Windows 7 using your key to any machine (including the machine already running the upgraded Windows 10), you will not be able to upgrade.
The issue is that the terms do not specify how to go about transferring the license to new hardware. It also doesn't specify whether or not there is a time-limit (more on this later). Now that we have what the official terms say, below I summarize what others (including Microsoft Officials, whose words are obviously not legally binding).
Because I don't have enough reputation, I cannot post more than 2 links. So, the links to the sources of the Scenarios are posted in the comments, in order.