Here is the answer. Under the "Trusted Root Certification Authorities" list, you have to manually select the Root CA of your company. By default, these are all blank. That is why the warning message appears the first time if you do not select your company's Root CA. If you connect despite the warning, then your company's Root CA is now selected, and you no longer get the warning on subsequent connections. So, to avoid the warning, just select this box when you set up the network, before you connect for the first time.
If you do not see your company's Root CA here, that is likely due to the fact that by default, double clicking your certificate to install it probably puts it under the "Intermediate Certification Authorities" tab. You need to select the "Trusted Root Certification Authorities" tab instead. You can see where certificates go under: Internet Explorer > Internet Options > Content > Certificates
That is not a big deal as it's supposed to be a one-off. But the root certificate it complains about is inconsistent. Half the time, they get this instead:
Under "Choose a network authentication method", select "Microsoft: Smart Card or other certificate". I assume this is already selected.
When the "ourserver.ourdomain.com" certificate is checked against the trusted anchor profile, for some reason (probably due to a specific issue with the implementation), it will arbitrarily choose either as the root.
We have a wireless authentication server (Windows 2003 SP2 with IAS). It is configured with a DigiCert certificate. The certificate chain looks like this:
Looking at the certificate store, the tool installed a new DigiCert High Assurance CA-3, even though an apparently valid certificate was present.  I checked the new certificate against the one it replaced, both had the same version number and expiry date, just a different serial number.  Not sure what was wrong with the previous but it all worked with the new one. 
I think that removing "DigiCert High Assurance EV Root CA" from Trusted Root Certificate Authorities might resolve the issue. It's signed by the other one, so it will still verify ok.
The reason this is an issue is that it means the client is prompted a second time at some later point when they reconnect to the wireless network, where the connection seems to arbitrarily choose the "other" certificate in the chain as the missing anchor, rather than the first. The selection appears to be random.
I had exactly this problem and solved it by downloading the DigiCert SSL Certificate Checker and running it on my IAS servers.  The tool stated that one of the intermediary certificates,  was incorrect and offered to install a new one.
When a Windows 7 client connects to the wireless for the first time, they get a warning about the certificate. It will look like this: