I think your question can really go two ways. There is the accounting definition of depreciation, and then there is the "real life" server depreciation, how much you could sell them for, and what kind of use they get out of them.
Here's a question to ask yourself:  At the end of the lease, would I buy that equipment for the fair market value?  You'll have to guess at what that is, but I usually assume about 35% for our 2 year leases (based on after lease quotes from our vendors.)  Would you buy a machine that was new 3 years ago for your production environment today?  The power savings and performance per watt have increased very significantly over the past 3 years.
Server components - unless the box is really ultra-cheap - tend to be higher quality and therefore last longer than PC components too.  Generally speaking, if it doesn't fail in the first month or so (when it should be still under even the most basic warranty), you're going to get that full 8 years out of it, barring accidents like being struck by lightning.
Leasing will rarely make sense financially unless you are trying to conserve cash in the short term. Someone makes money off of a lease, and that someone is the bank - and you pay for it. However, if you do need to conserve cash in the short term, you could always get a loan for the equipment or price out a $1 buyout lease. That way you keep the equipment but still have a low monthly (or other term) payment.
As for the financial angle, ask your CFO or accountant about the terms of the lease and if they think it's a good idea from the financial side of the business.
Our accountants depreciate our servers over a 3 year period. Meaning, from an accounting standpoint, they are not worth anything after 3 years.
You also need to think about your deployment process.  If you have it automated (enough) that moving from one piece of hardware to another is not very time consuming and requires zero downtime, then a lease is ok.  If your deployment process tends toward one-off configs such that you'd be likely to purchase that hardware at the end of the lease anyway, just buy it now.  Then fix your deployment process.  If you can't rebuild your machines in an automated way you're losing the ability to lease effectively.  Leasing isn't right on every deal, but you don't want to close the door because of a technical hurdle.
A decent server could give you as much as 8 years or more if the hardware holds up - just move it into less demanding roles as it starts to age (print server, WSUS, stuff like that).  It all depends on whether short-term savings are in demand right now, really.
Regarding kmarsh's answer, the value of your old server hardware can also depend greatly on the quality of the data that comes with it.  :-P