I personally use svorak - IMHO a stupid name, sdvorak would make more sense as it comes from Swedish Dvorak - I'm finnish though, but both Finland and Sweden has the same 3 alphabets extra to US, å, ä & ö. Anyway I actually like to keep my current keyboard keys in qwerty order - not for myself but for visitors. I have quick key bindings to switch between qwerty and svorak just so that friends visiting can actually get more than just frustrated ;D
As Dvorak is plain pointless unless you use touch typing you don't really have to see the keys (I did re-arrange them, it takes longer to learn new layout when you "cheat" every time you don't remember location of the key - looking is no help as you have to get it into "finger memory", not visual memory). So unless you can't use touch typing then dvorak has no advantage, if you can then it doesn't matter if you had every key painted plain black ;) But there is a point in keeping the keys in qwerty order.
Some keyboards support remapping of the keys.  I used to have an old gateway computer with a keyboard like that.  It might take a few minutes to get it all programmed and ready to go, but you can remap all the keys into the DVORAK pattern and voila.... You're cooking with fire now! 
I have a tutorial on my website that includes instructions for setting up the U.S. International keyboard layout on Windows XP. You can use the same instructions, just substitute Dvorak for U.S. International.
Regular PC keyboard, be it qwerty, azerty or even rarely sold dvorak sends same keycodes from same location - different layout configurations just assign different characters to keycodes.
And remember, the worst case scenario, if manually popping keys off and rearranging them, is that you accidentally break it - regular keyboards don't break easy and are cheap to buy if they do but some laptops have keys that are not so easy to put back (and even then they may feel odd to use) and you (or at least I) would not want to break your laptops keyboard ;) So, get those stickers or just let them be in qwerty order - why bother changing them? :) Best of luck.