Running Windows XP, now that it is no longer supported, is playing with fire.  Sooner or later, someone will find a security flaw that can be used maliciously.  
Antivirus = security guards that checks everyone and everything in and out of the building so that only good people can enter the building and fights with bad people.
Yes, you can stay on Windows XP and you might not ever have a problem, but is that a risk you are willing to take?
Security updates fix exploits that are leveraged by specially crafting network communication or resources. In some cases, those shenanigans operate on a lower level than antivirus programs can deal with. Installing updates stops any such bad code from running on your machine. They're important for any computer accessible to any network and any computers that handle untrusted resources.
If you depend on antivirus alone without security updates, it is similar to having security guards, but the building (OS) itself unsecured / lacks of security features. Intruders (malwares) can enter the building easily (using other ways) without knowledge of the security guards.
The ability to recover from exploits becomes much more important.  There are several things you can do to help protect yourself.  The primary protection is frequent backups, and keeping multiple generations of backups.  
The previous answers are all good advice.  However, if you're wedded to XP, the Windows updates/patches side of the equation is missing and can't be replaced.  So there is a gaping security hole that your A/V software can't address.  
IMO, I would recommend getting off of Windows XP.  Windows 7,8, and 10 are far more stable and secure.  Another option would be to move to Linux, but that has its own downsides.  
Having the latest updates to Windows is extremely important.  Some updates are minor, however some are major security updates that protect you from malicious users and programs.  Even if your Windows XP is completely up to date, that doesnt mean new exploits cannot be found and exploited.  And since Windows XP is no longer supported, there will be no more patches to fix any new security holes.
Yes, you should do both. Security updates and antivirus software do two similar yet different things.
Having up to date anti-malware/virus is also important, however those programs will only protect you from known viruses/malware.  An undetected program can use an unpatched security exploit and wreak havoc.  That coupled with the fact these anti-malware programs are far from perfect at detecting even known malware, you are taking a risk.
Antivirus programs stop bad things from running and search for bad files on the computer. They may or may not be able to see/block system-level exploits, but they can definitely look for and torch stuff like sketchy programs downloaded from the Internet. That's important for any home user that gets files from outside sources.
The other thing you can do is to add a layer of protection against changes to your system.  Load a program like WinPatrol.  I used it when I was on Windows.  It was free at that time, but it's changed hands and I'm not sure whether there's still a free version. It blocks a wide variety of changes to your system of the kind done by malware.  It will alert you to attempted changes, which you can accept or deny (IIRC, it includes the option for one time vs. always, and whitelists and blacklists).  My experience with it was a number of versions ago, but I found it really valuable, even with Win 7.  Then I switched to Linux.
Security updates = Security systems that are installed around and inside the building. It can be fences, CCTVs, biometric door locks, data encryption and any other things that can stop intruders from entering the building in illegal ways and doing bad things.
Even if they were more similar, defense in depth says that you should have multiple layers of security.