If you have another suggestion to make my work environment very efficient that would also be appreciated.
Does anyone know of a good text editor for Mac where I can open files directly from Fetch to a single project, and group each file I open to a folder so that the list of files on the side doesn't get overwhelming? Another feature I require is color coding for whichever language I am coding in. 
I ended up finding what I needed on NetBeans. I was led to it by something on thaJeztah's answer so I decided to give him the win. His suggestion of PhpStorm was crashing on my computer though...I'm not sure if it could handle a large file system.
I like to develop web apps with CakePHP. I connect to the server using Fetch, and to work on my website I go to my files on Fetch and click edit with>Text Wrangler. Then I am able to easily edit my files and save directly to the server. The only problem is, when I open many files to work on the website, it lists only the file name. In order to make my files named consistently, some of my files have the same name but are in different folders. For example, if I have multiple controllers, each one might have an associated view called "view". It's difficult to work when I have many files called "view" and many called "add", etc. Therefore it is important that I find a text editor that allows me to work on projects where I can group all of the files I am working on into folders.
By googling I have found that TextMate offers "project mode" where you can have folders but they stopped just short of offering what I need, because there is no way to open multiple files from a remote server in the same project. Every time I select edit with>TextMate on Fetch it creates a new text file, unassociated with the previous file I opened. There was a work around with MacFusion but it caused TextMate to crash and after fixing problem after problem with TextMate I concluded that this should really be a common enough feature that it should be built into the text editor without having to install any other programs/patches/etc.