At my old job we had 2-factor. Everyone knew the wireless password, it was even posted on the main Wiki page and saved as an email message in outlook shared folders, so everyone had access to it, but getting on the wireless network alone did not get you anywhere. The only thing you were albe to reach was out VPN server, so you had to VPN in to get anywhere.
If this becomes an issue I will buy another wireless router and set it up on its own network and publish the connection information.
On our network we allow guess access since we host many conferences and meetings.  We have open wifi with a captive portal on a network separate from the wired network.  When staff need to access a protected resource they establish a VPN the same way they would access resources from any other open wireless network.
I would find it hard to justify trying to keep a shared password secret.  If network access needs to be protected (due to privileged server access, for example) then the only auditable and manageable system is unique credentials for each user, with good logging.  If network access does not require that degree of protection, then trying to keep a shared password secret is just an annoying exercise in futility...
What i am trying to say is that 2-factor is the best, but I can totally see the situation where it's a small company and management would start crying foul because they have to type in one extra password
But at the job before that, help desk had to register each MAC address and we still had to use SecureID (2-factor auth) to log in .
At my current job, we were careful to design our network so that being on the office wireless granted no privileges higher than would be granted to someone out on the internet.  So there we use a single shared WPA2-PSK password that everyone knows.
It depends on the security requirements.  At a previous job, every user had a unique username/password to access the privileged wireless network.  Guests were allowed into a highly restricted network by clicking through a "You're using our network, be good!" warning.
Been a great looking glass into your configurations at your companies and your thoughts about wifi and its security.
Additionally some users bring in laptops and I would like them to be able to access the domain without a VPN.