I've gone from a helpdesk position to more of an administrative/database position at my job. I still have a healthy dose of client interaction due to projects that have followed me from the helpdesk as well as having built up a relationship with many of the clients while I was fixing there computers as a techie but the amount of clients that I deal with in relation to my actual duties these days is very small. As a server and database guy I don't often speak with the clients directly about what I'm doing day to day.
I work the 10am-7pm shift, and I try to get out as quick as I can, otherwise I'll end up getting sucked into more and more work.  The way I look at it is that there's plenty of work to go around, and that I shouldn't kill myself trying to do it all at once.  The 1.5 hours it takes to get to either site is enough of a drag that I don't need to compound it.
We interact with the users on a regular basis, because we're helpdesk support and server maintenance etc all rolled into one.  Frankly, if I could get away with less interaction, I would.  But that's just not feasible.  I spend a lot of my time "in the field" working on the computers and hand-holding the users through what should be relatively easy stuff.  As much as I'd love to fire off an email and resolve the problems anonymously, the user base isn't savvy enough to explain their problems beyond "it doesn't work".  As a consequence of being out so much, I get pulled into a lot of troubleshooting on the side.  Someone sees me, and right away it's "I have this problem, could you look at it while you're here.....".  Etc.  I'm getting better at telling them to submit tickets, but I digress.  
I work for a non-profit foundation that builds public charter boarding schools for low-income/urban yoots.  Including me there are two sysadmins, plus our director who does some of the grunt work as well.  We manage three different physical sites/domains, with a user base of about ~200+ faculty/staff, and ~450 students all told.
While I still maintain a good relationship with most clients, it's more just out of my friendly nature than my actual job. If someone comes to me with an unrelated question on a busy day then I will usually refer them to the helpdesk.
Most of the time the PROGRAMMERS are the ones you slip out the doorway without anyone noticing. I promise you that. Admins can get calls all throughout the day, while programmers only meet others in scheduled meetings.
In terms of meeting new people, I still have yet to meet all the users at all my sites.  There's just too many of them to be familiar with them all.  So I guess you could say that I do meet new people pretty regularly.
Unsociable hours are also another part of the myth. Our business is open from 8:00AM to 7:00PM, so I do the same 8.5 hours a day as everybody else does, but we do 2 shifts of 8:00 - 4:30 and 10:30 - 7:00 so there's IT coverage at all times. Sure once in a blue moon I might get a phone call at some ridiculous hour in the morning, but there's always a genuine serious problem, and it really is only once in a blue moon (say once a year if I'm lucky). There's also the odd weekend I'll be at the office, but it's only for maintenance that can't be performed during business hours, and I'll either be on overtime or get time in lieu.
In short: most myths you hear about IT folk are wrong, and don't let anybody else tell you otherwise!
Coming from a relatively small company (~150), and being one of a team of 2 in IT, I have frequent interactions with everybody in the company - internal sales teams, staff in our warehouse, external sales reps from all over the country, right up to senior management (including the semi-retired founder of the company who lives out in Spain).
I am both a network admin and a programmer and I can tell you, most of our programmers aren't very interactive with the company's list of employees. Admin work will be much much more closed off in communication from what I've seen. Usually Admin's may talk to people here and there, but usually its something small, or a problem that can be resolved with a quick email. All the admins that are employed by the company I work for are nonsocial, and want to really keep it that way, so they stay their distance. The programmers really have no choice since they have to understand what it is the requester wants.
Not only do I get to know people internal to the company, but I also have our hardware providers, software providers, and service providers who I speak to on a semi-regular basis. Not to mention all the people who mysteriously have my direct dial trying to flog me stuff (must have been previous IT folk, as it's not a widely known number and I'm very picky about who I give it out to - for just this reason!).
It's myths like this that can give our profession a bad reputation, and if I ever hear anybody (in a serious manner) coming out with ergh, bloody IT, miserable, unsociable gits who are just out to spoil our fun I will do my very best to prove them wrong and that I'm just as nice a person as they are. For those new starters we have that genuinely believe IT are unsociable and non fun loving people, all the new starters in my time have changed that opinion, so I think I'm doing something right!
Your myth is totally wrong, at least from where I am. Our office is all open plan (though we are against a wall for the sensitive issues we deal with), and in my opinion it's much better that way and has a much more social atmosphere. I'd hate to be "locked up" in some office down some corridor where nobody ever goes, and quite frankly I'd probably leave if we were "hidden away" somewhere.