VMware does have a similar product, but we found Microsoft's to be considerably cheaper and easier to deploy.
Both of those are production grade for servers.  I'd say give them both are try and see which you like more.
Windows Hyper-V server is also free (not to be confused with Windows Server 2008 with Hyper-V), but I haven't used it (yet), but have heard good things about it with things like live migration and it has a GUI as well.
As others have mentioned VMware have some pretty good solutions - VMware Lab Manager is ideal for what you want to do but in addition to the cost of the your vSphere cluster ($1k per physical host CPU + $5k for vCenter for vSphere Standard) Lab Manager is an extra $2k or so per host CPU. Even with the cheapest storage and Servers you can find you're not going to walk away with it for less than $35-$40k, and I'm sure you want to host it on good servers and storage.
By comparison vSphere Essentials has an all in cost of $995 and covers the CPU licensing and vCenter license for up to 3 hosts (6 CPU's in total, up to 6 cores per CPU). With that you get a proper VMware Cluster, support for deployment from templates, delegated management with the ability to apply limits to what users can do (so your developers can provision new VM's themselves relatively safely), a good management GUI and remote console for the VMs. You don't get the extra clever things like VMotion, Distributed Virtual Switches, DRS and so on with Essentials but it's an excellent basic Virtualization platform that supports all of the systems you want to cover.
We setup a similar solution for our developers who needed specific high-end server configurations to test against.  The best and cheapest solution for us was to have a pool of Dell PowerEdge 2900 servers (a cheap 8 core alternative that supports a good amount of memory and storage) running Windows 2008 with Hyper-V and then using System Center Virtual Machine Manager and the Self-Service Portal to allow developers to provision new environments on the fly.
This allows us to have a set of preconfigured templates ready to go and it literally takes 5 minutes to have a new server setup.  We also use the built-in quota system to prevent single developers from using too many resources on the server.  Additionally, since these are now running on central servers, versus desktop environments, it makes backups a possibility.  No longer do we risk losing days or weeks of work because a VM became corrupt on someone's desktop.
ESXi is free for use and has a stand alone vSphere (GUI) for remote access which gives you control over the ESXi server, the VM's and console access to the machine.  Downside is no USB support if you need it.
It's not free but it's not a huge extra on top of the cost of a pair of reasonably powerful host systems and it is easy to work with.