I haven't looked into this specifically for Exchange 2013, but none of the other answers claim to be new for Exchange 2013, so I suspect they are just mistaken.
I have no idea why this was done, I'm suspicious but that's not my problem, I don't want to be responsible for such so want to remove this permission.
The administrator is likely to be in a position to access the mail by packet capture as well.  This is more difficult, but not extremely difficult. 
To remove them, you would just add Remove-MailboxPermission or Remove-ADPermission to the end.  (Do this at your own risk ... This is all off the top of my head, which is why I am not including the full commands.  There are probably some mailboxes you would want to exclude, such as the Administrator's own mailbox.)
At our organisation the DOMAIN\Administrator account can access all mailboxes i.e. log in to Outlook Web Access as DOMAIN\Administrator and then open another mailbox and that users mailbox appears.
Anyone with administrative rights more or less has the keys to the kingdom.  If you can't trust them, don't make them administrators.  They should be in a position to undo pretty well anything you do to remove access.  
It appears from your message that you may be an administrator.  If so, you have the rights because at times you will need them.  Accept, but don't abuse the privilege granted you.  A trustworthy administrator will only use the rights when required to do your duties.  Those duties may include scanning emails for specific content, tracing email sources, and other activities which require access to other user's email.  
This is why service accounts for Blackberry Enterprise Servers must not be put into Organization Management.  Instead, they have specific instructions to grant access to all mailboxes.
Is it possible to search through all mailboxes and remove any access that DOMAIN\Administrator has (whether that be Full Access, Send As or Send on Behalf)?
Organization Management does not actually give permission to access mailboxes using OWA.  In fact, by default, this group is explicly denied access to all mailboxes, for the same reasons that you want to do so.  I suspect that the account was granted rights to every single mailbox individually.
Encrypting the mail messages at both ends could be done.  However, this would severely limit who you can exchange email with.  It is likely that you would want the administrator to be able to install and debug the encryption software.
A trustworthy administrator will not abuse their authority.  Where they do need to access mail folders, they will limit their access as much as possible.
I would expect that most solutions would be best implemented by the administrator.  The mail server would need to be able to decrypt the mailboxes.  This would give the administrator access to the mailboxes.