You can use a program like Soluto to analyze your boot time and remove or delay items that are slowing down the boot process.
10 - 15 minutes is way too long.  If that isn't an exaggeration, I'd say you probably have a hardware problem and don't realize it.  Either memory or hard disks will slow down when they're correcting for a lot of read errors.  Check out Memtest86 and use the built-in disk tools to check the disk for errors and fragmentation.  You could also check SpinRite
Some people swear programs like CCleaner help as well.  However, I have yet to see a registry cleaner do anything useful.  And even some are harmful.  Even Microsoft says registry cleaners/defraggers do not help.  
If it's not a hardware problem, then the answer is fragmentation, registry corruption, and other complexities of Windows.  Any system slows down the longer you use it.  Freshly formatting the system drive and re-installing the OS eliminates some of the problems that contribute to this overall slowdown.
Also, if these machines are connecting to domain controllers or other network resources it's possible that there's latency being introduced by having to sync up with those items.
All of those quick launchers and start up items add up quickly. Other than that I'd be looking at malware (even though you mentioned it already it could theoretically be infected with something that your software isn't currently able to catch yet). 
Lots of programs install startup programs and services and whatnots that get loaded at boot, which in turn slows the computer boot time down.
My initial hunch, assuming all else is the same, is perhaps Windows Updates could be affecting boot/login time. However, the usual culprit is usually a lot of software/services starting up at boot that get added on over time. 
It seems like something related to hardware. If u install a supported os and drivers specific to that system and os, it should work fine and faster. in windows most of the system crashes and slow down is caused by installing unsupported software and drivers. At first they might seem to work fine but later you will end up in trouble. Some softwares might not be compatible with others, especially those who install custom drivers. 
Another thing that reformatting does is remove fragmentation on the drive.  However, fragmentation is not much of an issue on newer computers.
Reformatting and reinstalling Windows does make your well used machine faster.  However, thats an oversimplification.  When you reformat, you blow away all those programs you installed, services, fonts, etc, etc.  