While frame interpolation can work real-time on videos, that isn't necessarily the case with video games. Even though this is processing real-time on videos, the software is able to "look ahead" to the next frame. This is a pretty critical component of interpolation. This is where the issue comes into play with games. Most of the time, next next frame has not been rendered yet! So the software doesn't know the next point in the interpolation.
Maybe this lag would make it unsuitable for fast past first person games, but I doubt it would be a hindrance in slower paced games.
It uses much less resources than rendering all the frames so would allow lower end rigs to render at the quality of much better rigs at some level of compromise. I know it won't be as accurate, and would slightly increase input latency as it needs to hold on to the newest frame to be able to generate and insert the interpolated one. It's not as bad as a full frame though, by my reasoning only the lag would be the interpolation time plus half the original fps refresh time. So for 30 fps it would be 33ms/2 + interpolation time.
The lag becomes lower at higher start rates, so I would think it would be certainly worth it when going from 60fps to 100+fps which improves the experience though increasingly marginally, while being extreme taxing on the system.
There's certainly the possibility of running the game a frame or two behind in order to give your interpolation software the frames it needs to work with. However, this doesn't work as well for media that is interactive. Now what's being shown on screen is delayed from the input being received. This does make things more tricky for processing input and providing a good responsiveness to the game. It's like building in an artificial performance lag. Additionally, it's unlikely to have native support in any of the major game engines, which means writing your own.
A system along these lines has been used in The Force Unleashed. I'm not aware of other titles that have used it though.
The SmoothVideo Project uses frame interpolation to increase the fps of video from 24 to 60. The results are pretty impressive. I was wondering if this could be applied to, and whether it would look good in video games?