Our server room has four cabinets (not fully utilized) and is supplied by several electric circuits from two different electrical services. Some of the equipment is 208V from a 3-phase service and some is 120V from a "regular" 2-phase service. (I don't know how or why the building ended up with multiple services.)
Right now none of the equipment is grounded other than whatever grounding is done by the wiring. E.g we don't have a ground bus bar, the racks aren't grounded (except maybe through the servers, if their chassis are tied to ground internally).
Note that even if you have a significant potential difference between the ground wires provided by the different services (which is not all that likely as a utility ground should be connected to a building's earth electrode in most cases), the only place where the ground current may be flowing in a proper installation would be the shield of your data cabling - the Ethernet PHYs isolate the transmission wire pairs from the ground. If you do not use shielded cable runs, you should not have current flows through your cable plant at all. If you have a shielded plant, the balanced nature of Ethernet transmissions and the low frequency of the current will make sure that the resulting interference would not impact your transmissions.
Disclaimer: I am not living in the U.S., so your mileage concerning the electrical installation and standards might vary. Common sense should not.
That said, yes, everything should be grounded, but grounding should be common. The ground is usually tied to the building, not to the services themselves; so your two grounds are probably already one, even if they don't look to be.
Yet, any of these only would really be a problem if the currents reach significant levels. There are exceptions to this - for example in cases where you are using analogue imbalanced transmissions (analogue audio or CCTV over coax lines) so even small currents might cause signal interference through ground loops. Or the Feng Shui, which of course is disturbed by any level of current but likely would not be of any relevance to switches and servers.
No. If you want to properly service a rack with multi-power-supply servers, you must feed it from both services, to avoid that if one service fails the server falls. No isolation among services possible. What you need is a good set of current filters on the input point to the building from each provider.
If your servers (or, preferably, UPSes) have multiple redundant power inputs, you should bring power from both circuits to each of them; this would provide redundancy if one of the utility services goes down.
As you are surely aware, any electrical potential difference in a conductor will induce a current. This is also valid for potential differences on the ground line. The "ground currents" are rumored to bring all kinds of havoc - corrosion of grounded pipes and even the steel armor of the building's concrete, signal interference and bad Feng Shui.
I assume since the cabinets are supplied by different services that there is the possibility of a ground difference, but I don't know whether that's an issue or how I would determine it. Getting all of the equipment onto a single electrical service is probably not reasonable considering the distance from the service panels.
Anyway, have a professional electrician check your setup; it's the right thing to do. Everyone has his/her job... an electrician would (hopefully) call a professional sysadmin to check a server problem ;)
If you are worried about the quality of the electrical installation, have an electrician check it - he also will be able to tell you if the different utility grounds are connected to a common building ground and have the equipment to measure ground currents. 
Please note that ground must be local to your building, or you are in risk that if you lose a wire conenction to "somewhere" you get ungrounded and, thus, unsafe. Think on a storm that first cuts the wire you use for grounding and then strikes the building with a ray. Bad news...