ATA is also called Parallel AT Attachment,physically they have close relation but PATA seems the newer technology system.So,try looking at some older model of interface system that have port like small pin pierced out from device like HDD,CD-Drive....those pins which are parallel to each other and have about 15 to 20 or something pins are example of Parallel ATA.
Compaq produced laptops at that time. They installed simple device to ISA bridge. This device is called "Host bus adapter" (HBA). Then, they moved controller to the disk drive and connected it to HBA with ribbon cable. Please note, that HBA is not controller: it is just an adapter. Controller was installed in disk! So, you can say that disk controller was connected to ISA with small aid of adapter.
Later on, manufactures created standard called AT-Attachement (ATA) that desribed both physical connection (ribbon cable) and programming interface of controller (registers and their semantics). It is called AT Attachment because it was about attach disks to AT bus (ISA).
SATA to motherboard the data is compressed, the motherboard then has it's own chip-set which turns the data from the SATA device back into decompressed binary for the rest of the computer, the same has to be done for data being passed from the motherboard to the hard-drive.
SATA can be ATA compatible, but they developed new version of HBA called AHCI (Advanced host controller interface). See: AHCI is controller, not an adapter from now. From that moment, we can say that SATA is regual bus (just like USB). That has 2 controllers: One controller resides on PCI (somewhere near "communication hub" (this is how they call "south birdge" now). Another one resides inside of disk, but this is complete different story.
Every ATA device is IDE. But pre-ATA devices are not IDE, although every IDE device produced after early 90th is ATA.
I found an interesting article here that explains the difference. It appears that it was actually called ATA, but IDE and PATA were just different names used by different branding.
PATA is ATA. And SATA is ATA. But when people talk about ATA they almost always talk about old, parallel version of ATA: PATA.
That was the first time controller was integrated to disk, so they called it IDE: Integrated Disk Electronics.
IDE also have same relation to ATA and PATA but those cabling system made up of flat wide surface that have 20 to 30 pins are IDE.There's newer system like EIDE which have higher bandwidth.
First HDDs consisted of 2 parts: disk controller (connected to ISA) and dumb disk. Controller (like any ISA-based device) was accessed by programmer using IO and memory regions. It presented disk as blocks using head-cylinder-sector geometry and handeled low-level things (like moving drive heads) by itself.
At the time of PC-AT (286) there was only one bus in the system. This bus was called system bus or host bus (nowadays it is known as ISA).
Every SATA drive have an on-board chip-set that compress and decompress the data transfer, where as the PATA controller, on-board the motherboard, communicated directly with the drive's hardware before.
But ultimate solution was to move to serial bus. It increased controller complexity, but gave engineers ability to increase speed. So, they created serial version of ATA called "SATA". From then moment, old version was named parallel ATA or PATA.
Any transfer to/from the drives has to go through this process or neither components will understand the other.
In the middle of 90th arhitecture changed: instead of one bus they connected CPU to chip called "north bridge" with bus called front-side-bus. Northbridge was then connected to chip called "south bridge". They integrated ATA HBA and ISA and keyboard controller and other low-speed devices into south bridge. ATA stopped been "AT attachment" at that time, 
ATA had one problem: it was parallel. Each data line resided on separate wire (there were 40 wires in original ATA). Big number of lines limit speed because of crosstalk. First, they solved it by adding additional lines connected to ground, so ATA-4+ used 80 lines!
All devices (inlcuding CPU itself) were connected to this bus: memory controller, floppy disk controller, keyboard controller, timer etc.