I am a developer and I am trying to setup a network for 10 servers. Based on the following link: https://askleo.com/whats_the_difference_between_a_hub_a_switch_and_a_router/, I understand the following points:
The main difference between a switch and a router, which the article fails to mention, is that switches forward at layer 2 and routers at layer 3.  When an Ethernet frame arrives at a switch it uses the destination MAC address to make it's forwarding decision.  A router uses the packet's destination IP address for forwarding.  A switch's forwarding table consists of MAC addresses and outgoing interfaces.  A router's forwarding table consists of IP subsets with next-hop IP addresses and outgoing interfaces.  Switches essentially forward traffic within a subnet, so if a device has an IP address of 192.168.1.5/24 and another device has 192.168.1.10/24 a switch can forward traffic between the two.  If the device wants to talk to a device on another subnet (i.e. 192.168.2.5/24) a router would be required.  To further complicate things L3 switches are available which can forward at L3.  Switches make forwarding decisions at line-rate using specialist ASICs, whereas routers generally use a CPU for forwarding, so they can have variable throughout depending on the current load.  L3 switches forward L3 at line-rate as the logic is implemented in ASICs.  L3 switch usually have a limited feature set compared to a full blown router as they require ASICs for each function.
If your network doesn't connect to anything else, that's all you need.  but if you also want Internet access, or you need to connect to another network, then you also need a router.  If you're connecting to the Internet, hen you also need a firewall, but some routers include this functionality.
If all you have is a switch, but you still need DHCP, you can run a DHCP server (daemon) on one of your servers.  That's actually more common than using a router.
In this case, should I buy a router or switch to setup my network? Why/what should I buy to setup my network?
You definitely need a switch.  Routers generally don't have enough ports, while even inexpensive switches have 12-24 ports.
As a brief side note, Layer 3 switches can function similar to a router and provide DHCP pools same as a router would. Layer 2 switches which I am assuming is what the article is referring to based on what I read, does not have any routing capabilities. The big key difference is what 'qualeboy' stated in his response, ASICS is not available in routers making the forwarding decisions based on next hop IP addresses and other forwarding decisions using CPU interrupts. Of course with CEF involved that helps out with most of it's forwarding decisions but that is a whole different topic. Layer 3 switches will be able to FORWARD the data at wire speed and use routing capabilities, but because of the lack of CPU available it will only have limited features as a quote-on-quote router.