When the player wins, make sure to have flashing lights and bells going off sounds of coins falling, etc. If can set up an area in the world with lots of slot machines with different prices and rules, it will make it more likely that a user will move around to try change his luck or to have some variation. If you can sync these areas up to allow other users to see/hear winners it will also increase everyone's excitement.
Don't give out free rounds, give out money equivalent to free rounds. Have a constant streams of wins and losses
4) It needs to be flashy.  Spins need to be quick so that they can play again quickly.  Sounds are important.
I think it's important to draw a distinction between "fun" and "addiction".  Slot machines are not fun, and never have been;  they are skinner boxes which apply feedback according to a simple reward schedule when the user pulls a lever, in an attempt to condition the user into repeated behaviour.  As such, they can be fabulously addictive.  Adjusting prizes and reward schedules will never make a slot machine fun;  they will only make it more (or less) addictive.
3) The "almost" win is an important psychological factor.  Consider showing the images above and below the one you are scored on so you get the occasional "so close" thought.
On the other hand, if addiction is actually what you were aiming for, then the answers from AttackingHobo and Tetrad are pretty much spot on.
Or in other words, in order to make a slot machine actually be fun, you need to make it no longer be just a slot machine;  it needs to be something that will stimulate the mind.
If your goal is really to make the game fun (and not just make it more addictive), then you're going to need to add some play dynamics, so that the player can make meaningful choices which affect the outcome (as happened with video poker), or can affect the outcome via application of physical skill (as happened with pinball).  
2) The idea of risk vs. reward is important.  Almost all slot machines let you place higher than the advertised minimum, and scale up the rewards accordingly.  So a $1 slot machine is really a $3-5 slot machine since players will naturally want to put more money in after they see that their winnings could've been higher.
You can't expect something that most of the time constantly eats your money without any reward to become addictive.
1) You absolutely want to give out small rewards.  Most slot machines actually have a pretty high payout ratio (on the order of 70-95%) of what's put in.  A good percentage of the time you'll make your money back.  Of course, over time slot machines are guaranteed money makers for the house, but you want to string people along.
Also it seems you have a enter bet, and then press to spin. You should have a few quick bet buttons, with a preset amount, that pays and instantly bets and spins. As well as a way to enter a custom amount, if you really need to have one.
There are a lot of articles out there that a simple search will yield answers to, but here are some highlights from what I've found: