From a security point of view most gateway appliances also have other functionality.  So you can also run IDS, anti-x (spam, virus, malware).  It will let you setup a VPN tunnel to access management interfaces without having to expose them to the internet.  If your servers need segmentation it will also give you the ability to setup separate vlans with firewalls between.
If you need less than ~75,000 active simultaneous connections, and under ~85 Mbps of throughput, the ALIX is perfectly fine. It takes a huge amount of web traffic to get to that point, so that would be fine for you. 
If you are set on a firewall, the Netscreen line will probably do what you want -- even the entry-level SSG5 will do for "light" usage (up to 8K simultaneous connections), going up from there depending on your needs.  However it is a hardware unit, which means you'll still need to find space in your rack for it.
Most gateway appliances use VIP's to expose the services behind the firewall.  Most of these allow some simple load balancing between multiple computers inside the firewall.  This makes managing your external IP addresses a little easier and in a pinch you can easily point traffic to a different computer internally.
Not sure what you expect that won't take up any rack space. :)  But, you don't need a full 1U box to run pfSense. The little ALIX kits would suffice, and they come pre-installed. 
There is always the possibility of just using each computer's built-in firewall rather than a separate appliance.
That's probably the smallest footprint box you're going to find that's truly suitable for a hosting environment, it's even smaller than your average SOHO Linksys/DLink/etc. There are people running pretty decent loads through those. Heck, we got Slashdotted on a web server behind a WRAP (the ALIX predecessor, 1/3rd its capacity) running pfSense and the site stayed up 100% of the time, and was as responsive as any other day. 
I have to set up a few servers (4 right now, more in the future) behind a firewall. The data center would like to provide a single port with a block of IP addresses, and then I'll have the firewall forward the correct IP address to the correct server. 
We've been really happy with the Fortinet devices.  They are cheaper and offer more functionality compared to the entry level devices from other vendors.  The company was started by the same guy who started Netscreen and sold it to Juniper and they just went public so the company is well funded and healthy.
There are some other advantages of having a gateway to your co-located computers.  Whether it's an appliance of some sort or a computer.