The PBX is going to handle all of your endpoints, your hunt groups, your schedules, your auto-attendant, call flows/trees, recordings, etc.. Your SIP provider gives you phone lines. The PBX allows you to use those phone lines. A lot of SIP providers can also provide hosted PBX services, so they handle everything.
I am starting out with VOIP and configuring softphones. When we sign up to a SIP provider like FlowRoute we get the credentials for a SIP Proxy. Can't we just use the SIP registration details in a softphone like Zoiper ? 
For a office situation you will want the free inter-PBX calling. If everyone is registering to a 3rd party that 3rd party my charge you for those interoffice calls.
If you want the features that the PBX brings to a traditional phone line on your VoIP line, you need a PBX for that too. Some Sip Trunk provides provide a few of these features at the host end but unless you take a "Hosted PBX" type service, (in which case you still HAVE the pbx, it's just at the host end!) you won't get most of them. 
You could set up a PBX in your office for internal communication between your employees. But if you want to attach public phone numbers and allow incoming/outgoing phone calls, you'll need to add a SIP provider.
If your looking at VoIP line to replace a personal line you could use this as a very basic phone line, possible for a home. You would need to see if your provider could provide voicemail or call waiting.
If you just want a simple phone, a VoIP equivalent of just renting a single phone line and plugging a dumb phone into it, you don't need the PBX, just a Sip Trunk. 
Why must there be a PBX in the middle ? Why setup a PBX and add the SIP details there and configure the softphone with Asterisk ? Why not add the SIP details in the softphone directly ?
Why would we want to setup a PBX? I am talking for setting up a simple system to make calls from a desktop. 
If you looking to convert to VoIP also check what e911 regulation may govern your organization, and confirm your provider can comply with these.
Their are several providers which can provide a whole PBX managed offsite, however if your office has a large concurrent call requirement you will need to make sure your location can meet the bandwidth requirements. The biggest benefit of a off site PBX would be if you have a large remote/home office user base.  If a majority of your users are in one office a on site PBX may be beneficial.
If you don't fancy Asterisk, and you don't want to pay, check out the "free" version of 3CX, windows based soft-PBX. 