Boot off a copy of the gparted liveusb image; it can do everything the native windows DISKPART cannot.
In fact, I only see 3 physical drives! The first one appears to be an optical drive (CD/DVD) and is assigned as drive Z: Whereas there are two physical hard drives (SSD or whatever) and are identified as Drive 0 and Drive 1. As I said, drive 0 appears to be the C: drive and is completely allocated and can not be expanded any further. However, drive 1 appears to have been allocated into 2 logical drives where only one of those drives has been assigned as drive F:. Drive 1 could be expand allowing drive F: more space or you could just assign and prepare the unused partition to become another drive letter (assuming you aren't using it for a different operating system or something).
SSD is short for (S)olid (S)tate (D)rive. It's is an actual hard drive of sorts that has no moving parts - it's all RAM and can be very fast. SSD's are not really "cards" but they might look like one. In fact, your SSD may even be mounted to a controller card that in turn plugs into an expansion slot (like a PCI slot). So I have slight issues calling it a "card" since it's really nothing more than a different kind of hard drive.
Now to answer your question. Yes, you can expand any drive's useable space but only if there is unused space to begin with. And from what I'm seeing in that picture your physical drive 0 is totally allocated to the C: drive. So no, you can't make that drive (drive C:) any bigger.
Now, if you've flipped drive letters around then this gets a little more confusing since it is possible to reassign C: to be something else - or any other prepared drive to any other drive letter. But make no mistake, you only have 2 physical hard drives. That's it! Only one of them (which I'm seeing as drive C:) is completely allocated and fully utilized while the other is not. What you do with that unused space is up to you - you can either expand it for the existing partition or you can make another logical drive ending up with 2 or more drive letters on the same physical drive.
The easiest way to resize an windows partion is use an third party application for it. For Exaple install "EaseUS ALL-IN-ONE Partition Manager Software" and manage partition size as you wish. System will need to modify system partition properties and that's it...