The data-centre wants us to pay $3000 for a dedicated load balancer appliance. But they also say that their firewall has the ability to do this automatic failover _in_theory_, although they've never had a customer use that feature. I don't understand why such a simple task needs dedicated hardware or even a virtual server. Why wouldn't any small company prefer to do the load balancing in the firewall?  It's less cost, less hops, less complexity...? What is it that I don't know about LTM (local traffic management)?
Of course, if the firewall does as you described, then it is not a pure firewall, and may have performance implications.  Does it do NAT or act as a routing gateway as well, or is it only a bridge?  You haven't mentioned performance at all, so if that is not your concern and your firewall can do failover, then of course, why would spend $3000 when your needs are met for free?
I've got 2 servers, let's call them 'node1' and 'node2' installed at a data centre. They run our application software. They are interchangeable, and each have a full copy of all customers' databases.  We want customers to be able to log into a single IP address, and have connections go to node1 if it's up, otherwise node2.  (Automatic failover is more of a concern for us than load balancing, although in future we may configure load balancing too).
If you find that this firewall does not do failover as you want, you may consider to introduce a gateway or bridge that can, but you'll need to pay for another machine for this.  (If you need performance, spend the $3000 on the dedicated load balancer.)  You could introduce a machine with haproxy, as JayMcTee suggested in the comments.  But what if this additional machine fails?  The firewall is already a single-point-of-failure, do you really want to introduce another one?  A DNS-based failover like Route 53 (again suggested by JayMcTee) would help to eliminate an additional single-point-of-failure, but then there would be a [configurable] delay in the failover.
There is no reason for a dedicated load balancer if the firewall can be configured to do this basic task. What you are running up against is the expertise of the hosting service. They do it way X because that is the most efficient use of their resources. They maybe don't have the expertise, as stated, they definitely don't have the experience to set it up and more importantly to support it economically.
Our requirements are very simple: we can supply a URL to use as the health check, and if that's responding on 'node1' then all traffic should go there in preference to 'node2'.
I don't think the firewall will provide the failover you describe, despite what you have described.  Generally firewalls only look at traffic and decide if it should go through or not.  They are intended for analyzing lots of traffic quickly (billions of ethernet frames per second) and will probably not look past the TCP/UDP headers.  If the firewall offers failover, it is probably more primitive and only checks if a MAC address or IP is reachable.  maybe if a TCP port is open.
Just for comparison, consider that an AWS ELB, balances, health checks and routes traffic for 19 bucks a month. What it also does is completely unpacks SSL for you. You don't need to worry about SSL at all on your application servers.