At this stage, you will have access to your old hard drive. It could be worth while taking ownership of all the folders on the 'old' hard drive and then copy the lot. This means you have a back up etc. However, the key thing is, you simply copy and paste the files / config files to your new hard drive.
I've saved many a families' photos by copying them from disks that were sitting in a icebox. Just make sure to baby sit it so that it doesn't get wet.
A potential issue might be the claim that "I'm trying to move user files, settings and applications over to the new machine" is too ambitious. The user files are fine, but preserving the setting and applications gets a bit tricky. With out getting into too much detail, you'd have to preserve the file system layout, windows registry, etc... It's a bit of a pain which is why most suggestions involve some kind of cloning to get an exact copy of the file system  state.
It might make more sense to go after a much easier problem. Install the applications and tweak the settings on the new machine and then just copy the user data. From there the suggestion of using the slave disk is a pretty good one, but I usually prefer to use a piece of disk to usb hardware. They come in many flavors, but here is a reference for the common case of sata:
but lets hope you're not in that universe. Finally, if your disk is having physical issues and it's a platter disk, the most common reason for that is the drive bearings (the little things the disk spins around on) dry out. If you happen to be using one of those Sata to USB interfaces then stick you disk in a ziplock bag, include a desiccant pack if you have one, wrap your disk in towel and then run your disk from the freezer:
This is basically some flavor of windows files permissions (Linux has a similar construct). If it's not, you may need to do some unpleasant tricks with file system recovery. Windows comes with some tools for "recovering a file system":
However, to slave, you simply connect both hard drives to the motherboard. When booting up, in in the BIOS, you can choose the primary disc.
If the file system is still in tact, great, just copy the stuff you need from one windows file system to another. You may need to "take ownership of the files":
As a free, but more time consuming option, I'd slave the HDD. It also depends on what user settings you want to move.
As for software, you would have to re-install it manually. This may be good or bad, depending on the license of the software.
https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/929833/use-the-system-file-checker-tool-to-repair-missing-or-corrupted-system-files