After running some quick tests, he said that he knew the problem was that AOL was identifying my website and the forums as some kind of spam prone websites. He seriously suggested that I contact each and every one of these website's hosts and asked them to logon to postmaster.aol.com and then send AOL their IP connection address.
To no surprise, my website host replied with suggestions of what I can do because they had no intention of sending AOL anything. I had told the technician that his solution, (actually, AOL's solution), was unrealistic and that AOL should allow the paid user to adjust his or her own spam filters.
I've bolded the points you may want to look into.  I've had trouble with sending mail to them in the past, which turned out to be a misconfigured PTR record for the server that was sending the mail.  I think you're OK there, but you should check the others out.
My new website e-mail address was being rejected by AOL and would not show up in the spam folders. Of course my Yahoo and Gmail accounts would accept the e-mails. So I contacted AOL and received help from an upper-level technician.
If you're doing email, you want to sign up for a feedback loop with AOL, and then to be on the AOL whitelist (which requires your server to be well behaved).  It's worth it in the long run.
That is pretty much where it ends so now I have my new websites e-mail set up so that anyone who sends e-mail to that website will have it redirected to my Gmail account which will then redirected to AOL.
This is just making my life a little more complicated and I can see my future with AOL coming to a quick end shortly.
Any idea why only AOL would be rejecting my messages? Also note that they are not making it to the SPAM folder.     
I have even set up an MX record (although I think this is irrelevant because that should only be needed for receiving email).  I did some poking around and randomly saw this on my server...but 2 things to note with this output:
I've had the same problem but mostly it was with receiving e-mail notifications from forums in which I had placed a post. It wasn't until about two weeks ago when I opened up a new website that I found this problem to be much more serious.
I am a bit of an email noob.  My website is trying to send email from a contact form using the PHP mail function.  This works fine when sending it to my Gmail account, but AOL rejects it.  I have set up an RDNS record for the client ( fallsroadsunoco.com )
A packet capture showing the SMTP conversation would be useful here, probably more so than the contents of your mail log.  Also be advised that AOL's mail servers are pretty psycho about who they receive mail from.   Check out their FAQ at http://postmaster.aol.com/guidelines/standards.html:
I told him that I doubted any of these large companies would do anything that he has suggested but I tried anyway. I contacted my websites host and relayed the information to him with instructions on how to go about sending AOL their IP connection address.