Be sure that the code is properly commented. I can't stress how important that is especially in large projects. 
Then there's the matter of source control. Ideally, I'd like to setup a git repository but the designers probably doesn't know how git works at all. Do game companies generally educate the designers so that they at least have working knowledge of source control to do what they need?
I understand that you can partition the map into sublevels and make sure that only one sublevel is being worked at a time. Well, what if you needed the designer to modify the scene while the developer adds some functionality to a sublevel? Is this not possible in Unreal?
Unreal has source control built in, I recommend checking out git, and setting up a local git server to track the users and their changes. 
We have a team of 3 designers and 2 developers with no prior industry experience working on a Unreal Engine 4 project. The designers will be creating assets & laying the scene out in the editor while developers work on the functionalities in C++ side. What's a general strategy of partitioning work for such setup? More specifically, how do you have the team collaborating so that the project can be worked in parallel with minimal conflicts?
Good practice includes working in a separate branch per sub project. for example. If I am working on a blueprint script for a light switch I would create a branch called light switch, and after it has been tested I can merge the branch into the main branch.  This prevents issues that can break the entire project until they are resolved or files from being inadvertently deleted. 
Slack can help in organizing communication within each group, and overall.  I recommend no more than having meetings 3 times a week. This helps the programmers a lot. mainly due to the common requirement of maintaining the overall code they are working on in their head until it is complete in code.
As for partitioning the project, Take the overall project, and decide what components need to be built or designed, assign those to a group, then split those down into tasks. assign each group member a task based on their skills. 