I'm pretty sure that lot of professional Admin have been in the same case than myself, so there should be a way to easily pilot several server at once.
How about using Wake-On-LAN to wake them up from their slumber, and using SSH to shut them down.  You could script SSH quite easily, with any one of a number of tools, (I'd probably look at using Ansible... but that's how I think..)
Ansible doesn't just do hardware and operating system, it can also manage cloud-environments, network-equipment, applications and everything else with a proper API.
Why do you need to power these server all off or on at once? It's actually not a common request or action amongst professional sysadmins.
I'm planning to add 10 more server (probably HP because they are very cheap) and I definitively need 
There's another dirtier method, where you put them all on a network-enabled PDU, then you could just switch the port relays to OFF, and it's like unplugging the power leads.
I would like to switch on or shutdown all the servers from another Win7 machine. The win7 machine is now on the same local network, but I'm looking for a solution that can work even outside the local network.
Ansible can also instruct the OS operating system to update, reconfigure or shut down, works for most (if not all) flavors of Linux, Unix and Windows.
I'm also going to assume that they're running Linux - Because rendering on Windows is terribly slow and inefficient.
Can I make an alternate suggestion?  (I'm going to ignore the fact that servers don't like being switched off - Perhaps you're booting from a SAN? :P)
Look at Ansible as an orchestration tool that can talk to your iLO interface (or alternatively Wake-on-Lan) and instruct systems to boot (or boot from a boot-media).
If they are running on Windows, and you want windows to be the cluster controller, you could still use Wake-On-LAN to start them, but use Powershell Remoting (or similar PSExec runes) to shut them down again.
I just installed a small render farm composed of 16 HP proliant 380 G5 and 10 Bull Novascale R2 (supermicro based motherboard). OS is windows server 2008 R2.
On both brand I can turn on or shutdown the server one per one using a browser interface (tested from local network).
Either way, you can either use a combination of ILO and IPMI tools: Using the ILO SSH interface for the HP servers and ipmitool for the Supermicro servers.