We need to move this free space to the end of /dev/sdb1.  Start by seeing how many extents exist on each drive:
I moved and resized /dev/sda2 and /dev/sda5 using GParted, which makes me a lot less nervous.  Then, lastly:
The LVM commands here will tell you if you are about to do something stupid, like make a physical volume smaller than the allocated extents it contains, but some will not, especially fdisk - it is quite easy to end up resizing the partition so that it chops off the end of the physical volume.  This is a Bad Thing.  Make sure the partition is at least as big as the physical volume!
I've figured this out.  Before I start, I'll say that the numbers below may not add up - I've tried to recreate exactly what I did, but I've had to backtrack through the numbers.  My advice is to do everything you can in kilobytes, because all the tools agree on how big they are.  Be VERY careful using fdisk, that the partition is at least as big as the physical volume it contains, because it won't warn you if you try to do something stupid.
sda1 and sdb1 are in a single LVM physical volume group containing a single logical volume containing a single logical filesystem which is mounted as /.  sda5 is mounted as /boot.
The problem comes when I want to upgrade to Ubuntu 12.04, which requires at least 247MB free on /boot.  So I need to reduce the size of sda1 so that I can increase the size of sda2 and sda5.  How the heck do I do that?  I can find how to shrink the logical volume group, but I'm not at all clear on how to clear out the end part of sda1 so that I can reduce the physical volume group.  Does pvresize just deal with this automagically?  Or is that wild wishful thinking?
First, I needed to boot from a flash stick (because the root filesystem is in the LV).  Then check the filesystem is okay:
I guess the alternatives are to back everything up onto something or other and recreate the thing from scratch or find out whether GRUB2 supports using LVM for /boot.
Now you can resize the partition using fdisk.  A warning here: my partitions were set up so that /dev/sda1 started at sector 63.  I had assumed that this was the default and so didn't actually note it down.  Then fdisk would only let me recreate the partition starting at sector 2048, and I didn't know it was wrong - now I have an unusable system!  Luckily, you can re-delete and re-recreate the partition without any ill effects, but I had to guess where the partition was supposed to start.  So NOTE WELL WHERE YOUR PARTITION STARTS BEFORE YOU DELETE IT!