On the other hand, if the router interface is configured with a primary and secondary IP address, then you do not need any configuration on the switch - a single VLAN will do.  
To the question of whether or not you can plug it in to one switch and expect it to work: there is no reason a L2 switch cannot carry two IP subnets (since it doesn't care about subnets at all) but in most enterprises, it is not done this way.  More commonly, a switch will have ports assigned to a VLAN and thereby two subnets will exist on specific ports on the switch.  If you were given specific switch port assignments for your servers, you will need to heed those with precision.  If you are providing your own unmanaged switch and you only have one port assigned from your enterprise, then it is probably a mixed subnet.
I have been tasked with a DC installation of ten servers. I myself, am a software engineer and not a network engineer (welcome to enterprise!), so I am a bit puzzled over this. I have been assigned the IP ranges, but these are two separate ones. To be precise (where the first 3 octets are the same for each):
The configuration on the switch depends on the router configuration.  If the router is configured with a logical interface (sub-interface) for each subnet, then you need to configure a VLAN for each subnet and trunk both VLANs to the router.  That means the uplink to the router will have both VLANs on it, using tagging to keep them separate.
The advantage of the first method is that it gives you a mechanism to handle the two subnets differently.  For example, perhaps you want to apply a different security or QoS policy for each subnet.  If that's not the case (nor ever will be), then it really doesn't matter.
My question: Presumably, do I now have two default gateways that I need to configure. Some servers connected to xxx.xxx.xxx.32 and others xxx.xxx.xxx.48? The only network equipment at my disposal is an L2 switch. Is it just as simple as linking my equipment up to the L2 switch (some servers configured on one gateway and some another) and then on to the upstream switch/router? Will my switch support what is essentially 2 different subnets?
To the question of default gateways: yes there will need to be a different gateway for each subnet, and that info should have been provided.