You said the server is correctly connecting to the iSCSI disk, so the reason it's not booting is simply because... there's no O.S. installed on it; that's the exact same thing that would happen with a local disk when no O.S. had been installed yet.
You need to perform the O.S. installation, exactly as you would do it if the server's disk was a directly-attached one; what exactly you should do depends on the actual server you're using: it could have a physical DVD-ROM unit (maybe shared between various blades), or some remote management adapter you could use to connect an ISO image, or you could do it using PXE if you have a PXE server available.
3. Change the overall boot order to boot the disk you selected in step 2 to boot first, or in the order that you want it to, CD drive first for example.
Note: You need to use an OS that supports booting from iSCSI. Xen is not an OS, it's just a baremetal hypervisor. So whatever DomU you use must support booting from iSCSI. For Others reading this: I don't know which do offhand, but it should be in their spec list. For Xenserver (this question asked specifically about): Does support booting from iSCSI, the procedure is generally the same as any Linux, but a good writeup can be found here: Booting XenServer 5.5 from iSCSI (I'm not affiliated with this site).
I cannot remember if you need to save and reboot after each step... even though I did this last night..
If you have XenServer Enterprise and SANs in HCL of citrix, you can use Storage Link to manage volumes of your virtual machines.
2. Go into the Boot menu, select the hard drive boot priority order, in my case I had 14 disks, and 1 Intel iSCSI (I forget the exact syntax) mount.  This is the one you need to select.
What you'll need to do: Boot from the CD, mount the iSCSI LUN (either through software or hardware) then install to that "drive". Then boot via iSCSI and it should be picked up.
Boot from whatever install medium, and the installer should list the iSCSI drive as one of your install options.
I have been booting off iscsi from my X9DRL for a while now.  You need to do a couple of things (one do not update the BIOS unless you absolutely have to, it breaks the configuration, and I spent 3 days trying to figure it out again, ESXi 5.5 needed the BIOS update for myself).
You can use flash storage like PEN Drive or SD CARD to put XenServer. You don't need redundancy on Hypervisor.If SD CARD or PEN Drive fails, just replace with another with a backup of HV.