So you probably have computer X in your network that has your website. On that computer you would then also have running DHCP and also DNS. Since all of them use different ports, this is no problem. Have the DHCP return (in addition to the IP address leases) also the Nameserver IP of computer X. Have the DNS server return the router’s IP when it’s name is queried, and forward all other IPs to the name servers you get from your provider.
If you have a network and want those connected to the network to autoconfigure, you probably want to set up a DHCP, which assigns IP addresses to the clients. In addition to simply assigning IP addresses, the DHCP protocol can also transfer information about which DNS servers to use. 
I recommend using Dnsmasq, an all-in-one solution for SOHO networks. It provides both DHCP and DNS services and is very easy to set up. It requires very little resources, so you could run it on a Raspberry Pi or your router (with a firmware replacement like OpenWrt).
This would have the effect that any host with correctly configured dns which was connected to your network would be directed to the router when they entered router.mydomain.com while if they were outside your network they would probably not see anything or perhaps they would see their own router.
The powerdns instance I have installed will then forward any queries which it doesn't have an authoritative record for. This allows me to make up domain names or override public dns settings and point them to hosts within my own network.
It runs on a linux (debian) based pc that is on all the time and servers as my local network's dns server as well as other functions (e.g. file server). Then on my router I configured a firewall rule that allowed outgoing dns traffic from my dns server pc but redirect all other outgoing dns traffic to my dns server pc.
If you’re going to run a DNS service, you might as well move the DHCP service away from the router, too. That way, no manual client-side configuration is required.
Assuming that your router's ip address is in a private IP range (see https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Private_network) and you own a public domain name, an alternative solution would be to set up a subdomain and have the A record point to your router ip.