What is worth considering here is a change in your backup system location. Keep your online backup on a machine on-site, but send an offline backup off-site. Your online backup is close and connected via LAN, so recovery is quick, while you have a disaster recover copy of your backups in case the worst happens and your site is pillaged by angry mobs.
(Cue apocryphal-but-probably-happened-somewhere story of the heated car seat completely frakking up a backup tape.)
There are companies that offer secure remote document storage services, where they send a courier around to your office with empty boxes, you fill them up with paper and they are archived forever in secure locations. Lawyers and similar use them for old cases. You can co-opt these services for remote offline backup.
Yes — but don't forget to test that your backups still work after a round-trip to the off-site location.  If data can't be retrieved from the backup, it's not a backup.
Yes, good backup, especially if you can get nice fast eSata or otherwise fast external drives.  But even USB drives will work, only slower.
Backups which are not physically connected to your infrastructure are a Good Thing, if something catastrophic happens to your online backup infrastructure you still have a secondary copy of your increments available.
Buy storage for one box from them, and buy two boxes. Every week, have them send out the currently stored box and swap it with your onsite box. What's in the box? Your offline backup hard drive! This is an extremely cheap (we pay about AU$40/week for this) and very secure way of maintaining an offsite backup in a secure location.
Ultimately, after all the various electronic methods, most major corporations have their backup tapes/disks taken by hand off-site for long-term storage. I myself rotate a bunch of firewire-connected hard disks that I backup my various machines to into and out of a safety deposit box every few weeks. So yes, 'sneakernet' is a good way of dealing with backup in my opinion.