Since Rpi has only 17GPIO as Vassilis mentioned it will be hard to do it because you need something in between, but there is Arduino (Mega = 54 IO)and it can help at least to decode button/wire pair combination. I need to look on laptop boards what ic are used as the controller to see if we can use it, is it programmable etc.
From what I have seen there are two sheets of foil with paths and connection/button points divided with one foil as a separator. Each wire is allocated to few buttons on one sheet and connects to the second sheet and other wire. I have checked the number of available combinations https://www.hackmath.net/en/calculator/combinations-and-permutations?n=24&k=2&order=0&repeat=0 look's like we have 276 possible combinations.
Anyway, it is possible and probably not that hard but of course normal people would just buy a USB keyboard.
It has a 24-wire flat cable coming out of the back. Would it be possible to use this as a keyboard for the Pi (I assume with some microcontroller in between)?
I have few laptop keyboards and I really want to use them... So what I can see those with 24 wires are keyboards without numeric pad while keyboards with numeric pads have 26 wires.
Because there are many keyboards and they have different combinations best way is to make a small program that asks you to press a specific button and record which wire-wire combination is associated with that button.  
Some keyboards might have a controller of some sort. If they don't have a controller, then all of the keys are wired up in a key matrix. Pushing a key will connect one column and one row together. Most controllers will scan through the columns and look to see what rows go high to find which keys are pressed. One thing you might try is getting a Teensy arduino and programming it with the usb keyboard firmware. You'll have to figure out how all of the keys are wired up though. The Teensy can convert it to USB to plug into the Pi. There's a lot of technical skill required to do this, it's not for the faint of heart.
I haven't tried it yet, but I believe this should be possible. Simply line up the connectors on the ribbon cable with those of the keyboard controller and hold it in place with the cap (make sure it has the same amount of connectors, it usually does). If the ribbon cable is too small, get an adapter.