Virtual domains are a little more complicated.  Add the virtual domain names in Server Admin -> Mail service -> Settings -> Advanced -> Hosting -> Locally Hosted Virtual Domains (and check the enable box).  Then, to create users for this domain, create them as usual in Workgroup Manager, and add their full virtual alias as secondary short names (e.g. you might create a user with the primary short name "alice-otherexample", and a second short name of "alice@anotherexample.com").  Alice can then receive mail using an account name of either "alice-otherexample" or "alice@anotherexample.com".  Note that users for the server's primary domain name (or its aliases) don't have to bother with these funny names, they just access their mailboxes by their usual shortname.
In either case, make sure you also set up the DNS properly; you need MX records for all domains you receive mail from, pointing to your server's hostname.
While it is not impossible to host more than one mail domain with MacOS X, it is difficulty to achieve without knowledge because all the graphical administration tools allow for the configuration of only one mail domain. Don't confuse this with the hosting of more than one domain for the web server, which is trivially easy to set up. 
Adding alias domains is easy: in Server Admin -> Mail service -> Settings -> Advanced -> Hosting, add the additional domains to the Local Host Aliases list.
To configure hosting for more mail than one domain with basic MacOS server (without third party software like Zimbra or Kerio) you will need to edit your postfix configuration by hand and will have to figure out how to connect this to Open Directory to interact with your user database. 
There are two ways to set up multiple email domains on OS X Server: you can add aliases (which share the same account names, e.g. alice@example.com and alice@anotherexample.com go to the same mailbox) or virtual domains (which can have different accounts).
I am not really sure if MacOS X server is the right tool for what you want to do. It is great as a file server and directory server if you have many Apple clients, but everything else (Mail, Web, Groupware) is definitely targeted at small companies without many needs (say small creative agencies etc.). Since Apple mostly uses standard unix tools  and just sugarcoats them with a nice GUI, you can actually do quite a lot with the system if you configure it manually but that will require quite a bit of knowledge, not least because you will have to fight many Apple idiosyncrasies along the way. 