A very simple way to achieve your desired goal is to set up once instance of Wordpress in the usual way, perhaps on an off-line test system. The installed version is nothing more than a directory tree of files and a database.
You can use a combination of wp-capistrano and wp-generate to deploy WordPress and Cucumber-WordPress to test it.  In fact some well-written cukes with Cucumber-WordPress should be enough to be able to build ad then test the wp-config file.
Curl, nc, wget can all send header requests as can a simple socket connection in your installation script.
EDIT: All we do to install wordpress is call this URL: http://"newdomain".com/wp-admin/install.php?step=2 - if you change settings in the backend calling this URL will install wordpress without having to go through the wp-admin/install.php form
Editing the hosts file just to get WordPress seems wrong, not least because it means the deployment script (assuming it is scripted) then needs write access to the hosts file.  Far better to get the generation of the wp-config file and the population of the database automated, all of which a combination of the above scripts will manage.
What I am trying to do is to automate wordpress website creation for the company I am working on.  We have lots of information in our database for our customers and we want to create a wordpress website for each customer.  The process works great and we have no trouble with the creation of websites/transfer of data or anything like that.  
I have seen where possibilities where you can change the wp-config file but this doesn't work since we have more than one domain and it changes the source URL for all the domains.  What we really need is just a way for us to manually start the install script through a call either through a database or some other way that doesn't check to see if the domain is resolved or pointing at the server or not.
As long as you know the IP address that you need to get to, and the domain name you're trying to hit, you won't need to modify /etc/hosts
The problem we do have is when we buy a new domain (http://www.newdomain.com) our process breaks (we call a stored procedure which installs all the data after the URL is called to install wordpress) if the domain takes more than 15min to resolve.  We have tried doing looping (where the process checks to see if the domain resolves and keeps trying - but eventually if fails).  So what we are looking for is to see if there is a way to install an URL without actually having the domain resolve yet.