Look at the xp and level systems of the old "grinding" games - Diablo 1/2, Everquest, etc... and all MUD's I've seen have had players endlessly playing to get small awards, often in the form of something you can invest to be more efficient next round.
The most boringly bad games I've played have been those which require little skill and where you have to run endlessly through corridors. Adding a button to push every 30 seconds in the level doesn't help, you need to at least have some small danger or skill effort in between.
In old-skool shoot'em'ups you have a fairly established cycle of enemy waves and a boss to cap it all, in around 2-3 minute cycles.. you want the player to feel the "just one more" thrill. Give the player some points to spread on power ups after each boss to encourage repetitive play even if the enemies start repeating. 
Humans are suckers for small awards, often. They have to be in return of some effort though, in case of a virtual environment like a game.
Look at all the most successful mobile and flash games. People replay levels just to get the full score per level often even. I don't have the reference, but I know I've read summaries from studies that researched the sweet spot for dealing out these rewards. Maybe a 1-2 minute window, for mobile games at least... people keep mining rock to be able to build small things, or keep watering some crops to.. harvest it.. or similar. 
Awards can be explicit like in the above examples but they can be implicit as well, like you feel you do something in the game which required some skill even if the game doesn't tell you.
Of course there are the other grand achievement awards listed in a lot of the other good answers here, but I'm not sure that they are the ones that actually sell your game to the broad masses by keeping players "jacked in" enough that their friends get curious and have to try the game etc.. they will certainly be nice to the hardcore players, but then again, you have to decide who are your main customers.