I support a large number of public libraries that are having their networks upgraded in response to a grant application.  These libraries are generally home to between 6-15 computers and have little or no tech services either onsite or contracted remotely.  
There are other particularly good pieces of hardware that can run WRT/Tomato firmwares, though I stick with the WRT54GLs because I like their retro design and stackability ;-)
The router needs to suppport DHCP and basic firewalling.  No other features are required.  Further, the reports just need to show overall trends.  It is not necessary to show traffic by IP, by protocol/application, or by time of day.  They just need an overall week to week, month to month, trend line.
In order to justify current and future purchases, a number of the libraries have requested routers that can provide bandwidth usage graphs that they can show to their managing boards.  Is there a small business router that displays traffic graphs in the router administration web interface?
DD-WRT has both a monthly traffic view and a real-time bandwidth monitor as part of the default web status pages.  Once it's installed and running, nothing else is needed except a web browser.  And even though most people download and install it themselves, they do offer paid commercial services and setup as well.  Here are some screen shots of both pages on my installation.
As an aside, Tomato's QoS implementation (once configured appropriately) actually works very well, whereas DD-WRT's is made of fail from personal experience. I've not ventured into OpenWRT waters yet so can't vouch for its efficacity, but Tomato really is simple to flash to a supported WRT54GL (WRT54G v4) or other supported Linksys device. Cheap, cheerful and very stable, a real set and forget box.
With SNMP you can use Cacti to do the graphs and with luci-app-statistics you can see the traffic history as graphs on the web interface of the router. Only thing to remember is that the statistics are forgotten after the reboot of the router.
I'm familiar with MRTG/PRTG/tools that collect SNMP data from the router, but the libraries don't have the expertise for the configuration. I've considered installing the tomato firmware on some cheap home/home office routers, but if there's a commercial product that can be purchased that would be significantly simpler.  Also the library boards would be much more likely to approve the purchase of a commercial product over a 'hacked' one.  
Tomato also has some nice realtime (SVG) bandwidth graphing - and it can also show realtime-updated pie charts based on QoS usage, which I use almost daily (just keeping an eye on things of course!). If you set up the rules beforehand - a five minute job - they could then see what's utilising the link on a momentary basis straight from the web ui. Like other WRT-based firmwares, you can even admin it remotely or SSH into it, so you could do emergency tweaking or config changes without having to attend should the need arise.