Cold air return ducts are another option to get cables from one area to another without drilling or hacking into walls.
My wife and I have just purchased a new home (built in 1999) and will be moving in after Christmas.  I am considering hiring someone to pull network cabling throughout the whole house.  I am going to ask for Cat6 cabling to be run to every location where there is a cable TV jack -- which is every single room in the house.
Just like you'll never place the switches right next to the circuit breakers, you will not put the network jacks right next to the power outlets. Make sure they are separated by at least a full stud section (16 inches). Do not run the power and ethernet on two sides of the same stud. You can run the ethernet near any coax (cable) as the current should not be enough to cause problems there. Telephone wiring is also OK to run near. However, as telephones can be plugged into ethernet jacks, I'd replace all the telephone wiring with network as well. Just because you can.
Wall boxes obviously have to be retrofitted as well ,but damage can be minimized will careful planning and cutouts.
Run, as pauska said, at least two wires of Cat6 to each jack. Sure wireless is convenient, but for those machines that are stationary, having a hardwired connection results in a more secure network as well as a significantly faster network. Personally, I'd make sure each bedroom had at least two lines, the living room has at least 4, the office has 6 or 8, and the LAN party room as at least 48, but that's just me, and not everybody can have a LAN party room.
The attic is another starting point. You either feed up- or down into the room walls ,depending on your starting point. Well you got my drift :)
Choose a good location for the hub. Whether this is in an office or in your garage or a closet, it should be secured yet easily accessible. Putting it near (but not right next to) your circuit breakers may make sense, but make sure to keep the wiring separate as power and ethernet are not buddies.
I have never done this before, nor have I ever built a home network more elaborate than a couple switches and maybe a dozen cables just thrown on the floor.  My question is, when contracting someone to build a permanent installation, are there any things in particular that I need to be aware of?  I realize this a pretty open-ended question.  I've done some research, but because of time constraints (a few days, maybe 2 weeks) I don't think I can learn everything I need to learn on my own in order to be pro in time for this job.
If you are planning to have it done by a contractor, be prepared to pick one that is experienced in this field ,but be prepared to pay big bucks.