Give each player the ability to wager what they would like to win.  The odds would be determined by the player's rating.
In my opinion are the daily and hourly bonuses too unbalanced and I think you should get rid of at least one of them. I think it would be better to be payed daily.
Try not making the battle reward based on levels, instead I would use a win/lose statistic and calculate the payment with that. Tell the player before entering a battle the amount of gold he would get so he can choose if he wants to play safe or play with profit in mind.
Once you have a ratings system, you can determine what the odds are using each player's rating, which determines what the player needs to wager to win their desired payout amount.
Most of the time, players do not like to see their ratings drop. In addition to the rating of a player, you could also add an experience score which goes up when a match is won but never goes down. This experience score would not be used in computing the rewards for a match.
But that option opens another problem. How would the other player be able to choose his opponent? Maybe only random fights where the game decides who you play with. Maybe you give the player a slider with how much gold he wants to earn and calculate the opponent that way?
One advantage of the Elo system is that given the results of each match, it can estimate the strength of a player's deck, which is then used to compute the rewards.
I think that you should implement some sort of Elo or Elo-like rating system, where the level of a player is determined not by the number of wins, but also by the levels of the players that he is winning against. If you had levels based on the number of defeated opponents, it would allow players to grind experience by defeating a large number of weaker players. The rewards for the match will be based on the rating of the opponent compared to the rating of the player. 
Many online games use ELO ratings similar to Chess, or you could use Microsoft's Truskill rating formula.