To connect to Ad-hoc you have to install DHCP service to linux machine. You can use dnsmasq as DHCP server. To install dnsmasq 
But it's not correct that "its not possible to have wireless network or carry wireless router where ever the pi go."  You can do that by making Pi itself an AP. Here is a tuturial of how to implement it.
If you see 'mac80211' in depends line, kernel driver is supported for AP mode. Then install 'hostpad' to create Ad-hoc Wifi network.  
WiFi Direct only works on a few very limited phone models (Galaxy S III etc). And Ad Hoc mode support is even more limited and seems to only work on a rooted phone. 
any idea how to achieve my requirements. if connecting raspberry pi with android by USB to microUSB cable will solve the purpose , please let me know how. 
Source link : http://nims11.wordpress.com/2012/04/27/hostapd-the-linux-way-to-create-virtual-wifi-access-point/ 
for prototyping purpose i tried creating Adhoc wifi network in windows vista but my mobile didnt detect the wifi possibly because the frequency of the wifi network cant be recognised by android. i tried wifi direct feature of my galaxy Note2 (android jelly bean) but i seems to work with only samsung specific phones. it didnt work with nexus 4 neither with windows vista.
First of all you have to be sure your wireless adapter support master or AP mode to work as Ad-hoc. To check in linux you can use modinfo command.  
i want to connect my android mobile with raspberry pi so that i can send some data from pi to mobile through UDP sockets and vice versa. This is because i want to use android screen as remote control , some rPI data display and live video view of pi camera output from android web browser. i am interested to use wifi connection but without using any access point/wireless router in between i.e i want to create a peer to peer wifi adhoc network. in home with access network this will work , but its not possible to have wireless network or carry wireless router where ever the pi go.