Is it possible to emulate this on a computer?  For example, there are VOIP services that will provide a phone number, and apps for exchanging SMS messages.  Can I cobble something together that would appear to the email provider to be a cell phone, which would be adequate to receive a text message to authenticate a new account?  
For many providers this is an anti-spam measure, not a security measure – that is, they rate-limit the number of accounts that a single phone number may verify in a short amount of time. (Google support: "we will sometimes ask you to prove you’re not a robot […] In an effort to protect you from abuse, we limit the number of accounts each phone number can create.")
So if your VoIP line can receive SMS messages it can safely count as 'mobile', if it's voice-only choose 'landline'. (Google/Gmail supports both. Other providers tend to use cheaper SMS-only services.)
So I wouldn't be surprised if they deliberately blacklisted the most popular VoIP services. But on the other hand, it means you'll only need to receive a code once (during signup).
Many of the big email service providers now require a mobile phone number in order to create an account (a land line isn't acceptable).  My understanding is that mobile phone access is used to activate the account (possibly via SMS messaging of a PIN?).  
Usually the verification of number ownership is SMS-based (requiring a mobile phone). But if the email provider allows you to select "fixed/landline" as an option, that means they'll deliver the verification code through an (automated) voice call instead. That's the only reason they need to know the phone type.
Or is a separate device part of the security design, so nothing you do on the computer would work?  I know that the email account creation includes identifying whether the phone number is a land line or mobile number; I'm not familiar with whether VOIP phone numbers are a third identifiable class.
I live in a cell tower hole and get no signal in the vicinity of my house.  So I haven't bothered with a cell phone.  I'm also in need of a new email provider for the first time in many years, so it's the first time I'm running into the cell phone hurdle, and I'm a bit hazy on the requirements.