These come in 2 or 4 post variations with enclosed or open frames, and as the name suggests mount on the wall as opposed to the floor. These tend to be used primarily for Intermediate Distribution Frames (i.e. switches, and patch cabling) outside of the main room/office. They can however be used to mount small servers and other small equipment as well. 
If you have a special piece of equipment for a unique environment there is a good chance that there is a rack for that.
Most of these cabinets mentioned come in numerous heights, widths, and depths depending on how much and what types of equipment are being installed.  There are a huge range of options and accessories available ranging from cable management to cabinet based cooling products.  
Also known as "server racks" or "equipment racks" are enclosed cabinets mainly designed for housing servers, UPSs and other heavy equipment that requires 4-point mounting, ventilation, and physical protection. 
I dont know if it's what you mean, but in my knowledge, there are 6 main types of racks or cabinets for switches and servers:
Also known as "open bay racks", are typically used for lighter equipment such as switches, patch cabling, and interface terminals. 
Racks differ in their height, given in Rack Units, but also in their widths and depths. These dimensions become very important when you start cabling your components and/or adding switches and/or PDUs on the rear of your racks.
There are lots of types of racks and cabinets in data centers.  2post racks used primarily for networking applications.  Open frame 4post racks are very common.  These are economical racks that are used when security requirements do not require doors.  Compartmentalized cabinets are used in colocation space to allow multiple tenants to occupy a single cabinet.  Fully enclosed cabinets are by far the most common.  These have a wide variety of applications in a data center.  The 30" wide cabinets are used when large enterprise class routers are installed.  This type of equipment requires special duct work which these wide cabinets have.  These wider cabinets are also used in applications that have a very large amount of cabling.  