It's possible that the recovery partition won't boot through GRUB, for some bizarre reason. There may have been some special sauce in the factory original MBR that was a prerequisite for the recovery partition. I have eschewed systems that had them, so I can't offer much insight there.
The MBR is essentially dumb; all it does is choose one of the partitions, and forwards over to that partition's VBR.
The MBR (1 sector, 512 bytes) contains boot code and the partition table. The "default" MBR code finds the active primary partition and chain loads it. (In GRUB parlance, +1 means the first sector, the boot sector of that partition.)
The mbr bit of grub writes the physical disk address of the next stage of itself into its own code, and takes no notice of partitions at all, active or not.
If you wanted a linux/windows dual boot, then the recovery partition would need to be forwarding to the GRUB partition, which would then allow options, and would forward to Windows if Windows got picked.
Yes grub does put some of itself in track 0. I personally never put grub in the mbr, I always use a "normal" mbr and install grub in a primary partition.
When you install GRUB into the MBR, it replaces the default MBR code (keeping the partition table of course) and instead loads the rest of the GRUB core image, which is installed in the "MBR gap" -- the supposedly unused part of the first "track" that comes after the MBR sector. If you install GRUB into a partition, it installs it as the boot sector; the default MBR code chain loads that GRUB boot sector.
I did hear recently of people having problems because a trial version of a program (Adobe something?) writes to that area of the disk overwriting some of grub (in order to be able to stop people reinstalling the trial again and again I suppose). (Listen to a recentish episode of the Ubuntu UK podcast for details) My view is that if you write to areas that don't belong to you, you can't complain about other people doing exactly the same thing.
But at best, that would only prove that your image of the recovery partition is good, and that you can access it through a vanilla MBR. Actually, if you prove that your image of the recovery partition is bad, maybe that's why it didn't work through GRUB, and if it was good, it would have worked. So that might be better, if you can make a good copy.
On systems with such a recovery partition, usually the active partition is the recovery partition. The recovery partition displays the "Press F11" message, and if not pressed, forwards over to the main OS partition. 
So that's why you're always running GRUB -- that's what the code in the MBR has been modified to do. You can restore the default MBR code with some variation of fixmbr.
I'd not waste time with the recovery partition -- you can get all the drivers there from HP's web site, and if you've already got 7 on the box I think we can both agree wanting to revert back to Vista is unlikely.
Whether using a part of the disk that is not marked as being used will cause a problem will depend. I believe that the disk partitioner in Windows Vista and 7 behaves differently to previous version, but I don't know if it utilises the spare parts of track 0.