Start with an entry-level model (tower or rack), and maybe upgrade a couple of things - slightly more ram, slightly better processor, slightly larger disk - and you should still be at a competitive price point.
21k requests, is that total hits to the server (images, css, js etc) or page views? Even conservatively assuming it is page views only then 21k pageviews pr week should comfortably fit on a smaller VPS.
My suggestion would be to consider the growth potential, i.e. are you likely to attract many more visitors in the future by means of marketing etc? Next, consider the 'spike-ness' of the site, will it have heavy load over a few hours / days?
That said, don't underestimate the warm-fuzziness of vendor support, especially when dealing with the bean counters. Dell advertises new servers for under $300, and while that is very entry-level, it is still a vendor-supported server-grade machine.
dells are cheap. But if you aren't going to put it in a rack and are looking for a table top solution, you should consider getting a mac mini :) 
Based on what you said, pretty much anything will be more than sufficient, capacity wise.  What's your budget and admin skill level like?  What kind of downtime do you think is acceptable?  Do you have room for a large rack-mounted noisy server or were you thinking more like under the desk?
If neither of the above is a problem, then either place the site on a managed or unmanaged VPS with a hosting provider of your choosing, or place it on a virtualized machine on your own server park. Hardware reqs for 21 pageviews per week are minimal, it's not more than ~6 pageviews per minute during workdays...
As for distros, what is your current site hosted on? If it's something open sourced, why not pick that? You'll already have experience with it, and it should give the IT staff the warm fuzzies since they'll know what to expect with it.
You should really get a budget figure nailed down, and then ask for recommendations within that budget. You'll get much better responses.