Since power does not seem to a problem. The Rpi touchscreen and accompanying case seems like a better option to me. But, if you still want to go e-ink, I am using this
For some background, my project is quite simply 3 shelves of plants, each having it's own watering system, LED lighting and soil moisture sensor (there is also 1 thermometer located on the top shelf). The Raspberry Pi then monitors and controls the growing conditions for the plants. My aim is to attach a small (2-4 inch) e-ink display to the pre-existing setup and have it display a GUI which can show the user information like the humidity, temperature and time in a similar manner to my mockup below:
P.S. I saw a video here where they were able to have the HDMI output completely black and only the necessary information in white. I was thinking that maybe this could be done with the colours flipped. But of course, the problems come that I am unaware of how to make such a programme (is there one already available) and that surely the e-ink would have to be either HDMI or DSI Display port.
on a current project with rpi zero, the the linking docs do a great job of getting you up and running with text and graphics, and there is a number of example projects that you can run right off the bat to showcase the features. The one I linked in pretty small, but I believe the company makes larger ones, just don't think adafruit carries them.  
However, I have found that there is not the same abundance of resources available for e-ink displays as there are for other displays such as LCDs. 
My question is: How would I pipe my sensor data into the e-ink display and have it add graphic elements such as the percentage circle? 
I'm currently working on a horticultural project with my Raspberry Pi. I have a fair amount of my project sorted out but still have a rather major part of the project to undergo which is the integration of an e-ink display to display diagnostics and measurements. 
https://www.adafruit.com/product/3335?gclid=CjwKCAjwyMfZBRAXEiwA-R3gMyv638JvFp6GcvHh5hCmNEf02OxWcaVMWaSILeiOwVhJk5-FZ3qahxoCfMoQAvD_BwE