Alternatively, you should have some sort of firewall already in place, and if so, you might be able to use a filtering product specific to your firewall.
Currently we use "Fortres 101" / "Fortres Grand", but it's not practical and it causes far too many problems, it's also a demo/trial version.  We're using a mix of Windows XP & Windows 7, but if it works with just Windows 7 that's cool too.
I have successfully used pfsense in combination with Dansguardian for Internet filtering. Was a pretty painless setup and this is a free option. I did not set up whitelisting, but it sounds like that's what you want and it is an option offered by Dansguardian.
I tried installing Microsoft Family Safety, however I think you have to manually set it up for the accounts that have already logged in on the machine it's being installed on and the problem is all of our machines are networked and we have many users via Active Directory.
Does anybody know any type of system lockdown/parental control software that will work for networked machines, with users that may or may have not already setup an account on the local machine?
Do you have access to the default gateway for these machines? If so, you can set up a transparent proxy in pfsense. If not, you can use group policy to set the pfsense box as the proxy server.
You should have anti-virus software in place. That will be a good place to set up application restrictions. If not, you can use Group Policy to set those as well. Group policy wouldn't be the best place to try to configure a list of allowable websites. You really want to separate the proxy and the application restrictions.
Microsoft offers a list of Group Policy Common Scenarios Using GPMC. This has a few template polices you can use in your active directory domain to use as a starting point for locking down your machines. From what you decribe it sounds like you want the Multi-User template.
I'm working for a relatively large public department and I need to prevent most importantly internet access to all but only a few websites.  As a plus, I would also like to restrict the machine to specific applications.