Too long to comment, but to re-iterate and expand on my earlier comment: the message will people will receive will, under the hood, look like "Amazon sent this message on behalf of "example AT gmail.com - please send replies directly to that address" and Amazon does not have to spoof anything as it is not pretending to be gmail, or any other domain, as far as SMTP is concerned the message will be from an Amazon domain. 
On the SMTP envelope Amazon will use their own domain and a unique mailbox name on their domain that maps to your account. 
The confusion here is caused by failing to take into account the distinction between the envelope-from (sometimes called "MAIL FROM") and the header-from (sometimes called From:).
Now, this completely covers SPF. However, as noted spam detectors do much more analysis, including examining headers so your mail could still be considered spam.
Just like snail mail letters, SMTP email has two different sets of address information: the envelope headers (like the addresses printed on the outside of an envelope) which are used by the SMTP servers to route and deliver the email, and the "normal" headers, which are part of the mail message and which are only read and interpreted by the user in his mail client/webmail, just like the address attached to a salutation at the start of a physical letter. Unlike the post office, SMTP usually throws away most of the envelope before it hands the message to the user. 
(And Amazon may also add a DKIM signature for/from their own domain to the message, increasing their delivery odds. The signature won't be aligned correctly though. ) 
Because the envelope sender is an Amazon domain and the SPF records that will be used will be for the envelope sender, the message will pass SPF checks. 1  Because the SPF checks are passed odds are then much higher that the message will then be delivered.
SPF only applies to the envelope-from. You can see the details in the documentation. There are two setups. One requires you to own the domain so it doesn't apply to you. You use the other setup:
In the mail message will be a From: and a Reply-To: header with your Gmail address, but a Return-Path: with the Amazon address. 