I know this is not a lot of information to work from and I can give more details about certain things as needed. I am just trying to figure out what could be going wrong.
There is a chance that your router/firewall is not allowing the "loop-back" of internal traffic to your public IP and then back into your internal systems. Some equipment just do not support that functionality while others require specific configuration to enable it.
If it's resolving to the public address, and the mail server is inside your network, then you likely need to change your DNS settings to resolve to the internal address for internal devices.
If I try to create an account in thunderbird to connect to the same server using IMAP4 or POP3 I get an error saying that thunderbird cannot find the domain name. Even the zimbra client fails too.
From with in my network I cannot connect to mail.campbellsurvey.net. When I mean I cannot connect, I mean if I open firefox and type https://mail.campbellsurvey.net I go nowhere, the address is supposed to connect to my Zimbra webmail. But it goes nowhere, the odd thing is if I try the same task from outside of the network it brings the website up like normal.
If your internal lookups are resolving to your public IP and your servers are only responding to internal requests through their internal IP, then the probability of this situation is pretty high.
It is like from with in my own walls that campbellsurvey.net does not exist. But if step outside I can get it work with no problem at all.
1 server is running Zimbra ZCS 7.1.1 (MX01), it has a private BIND 9 server running to achieve a split DNS configuration. This DNS server does not interact with the other two, it forwards queries it can resolve to the other 2 that is it. No zone transfers.
I had thought maybe the problem was with the DNS server (BIND 9), so just to eliminate it as a possibility I configured a windows server I use for VMware VCenter as a DNS server to see what would happen. The result was the same, its like something is preventing connections to those domains, but I have checked various firewalls and such. I checked port forwards, etc. So I am running out of ideas