In general, systems which are designed by well-regarded manufacturers are designed in such a way that, pending user modification of the hardware or extremely bad environmental conditions (a very hot room, vents clogged with dust, etc.), the hardware should be able to function at full speed at all times without being artificially slowed down. This is because the manufacturer will test the cooling solution "under load" and make sure that enough airflow is being done by the fans to keep the CPU cool while it's very busy, and make sure that the heat sink is transferring heat away from the CPU fast enough to keep up with the heat dissipation.
"a program that consumes 100% CPU in pursuit of actually accomplishing something is hardly scorn-worthy; indeed it should be commended for efficiency!" - http://blogs.msdn.com/b/oldnewthing/archive/2010/12/03/10097861.aspx
No moreso than normal use. The ideal is that a processor rated for speed X can continuously run at that speed. It's not like a motor where they have a duty cycle of expected use 2-hours on 4-hours off, etc.
The ideal is that it all fits in memory. If it goes outside memory, Windows will start using disk space as an extension to memory. This is, however, very much slower. If you run out of disk space, or have a fixed pagefile size, then your process will not be able to use more memory. If it's well written it will handle that, if not it will crash.
Of course, your specific laptop might have design flaws, poor tolerances, have a cooling system that can't cope with 100% full power, have component flaws, your software might have bugs, interactions of all the specific patches and versions and programs you have installed might cause odd behaviour...
RAM usage is a completely different thing and has nothing to do with cooling (in general). Using up all your RAM with programs can have detrimental effects on the system, but this will mainly slow down the performance. It is pretty difficult to outright crash a system with a BSOD by using up all RAM these days, because the program will get Out Of Memory error and crash, before the operating system crashes. It's possible under extreme conditions, though. RAM usage has no ill effect on the hardware.
For your second question: some people say silicon chips do wear out a bit. But there are many cases of CPUs running under 100% load 24/7 for years (for example servers). You don't have to worry about that as long as your cooling is right.
I built a crawler for my own personal use that queries many pages with curl_multi_exec. It uses 98% CPU and memory for 10 seconds on my laptop. I'm only crawling around a 1000 pages, but I wanted to do more. Is there a boundary my laptop has to prevent it from crashing? Can I crawl a larger number of pages?
Modern processors will slow down or shut the computer down if they start to overheat, to prevent damage.
You didn't mention what OS you're using, but both Linux and Windows should handle loads like that for longer periods of time. In extreme cases your process can be killed by OS, especially on Linux machines. Windows will rather try to limit its CPU/mem usage instead of killing it instantly.
Still, maybe you should rethink the problem - splitting the job into separate smaller jobs is usually a good idea.
In short, when you are using 100% CPU on a well-designed system with sufficient cooling, you will not experience any adverse effects, and the CPU is actually designed to operate at this level; you can't force it to go "above" 100% because that 0 - 100% scale is determined by the CPU's clock speed and other factors of the microarchitecture which your application programs cannot modify. Note that you can go above 100% load, but load is not equated with actual throughput: the load is how much demand programs are placing on the CPU, but while demand can exceed throughput, that won't make the throughput somehow increase beyond its maximum of 100%.