The default config options took a while to detect an outage, so I ratcheted the sensitivity way up. It caught downtime almost immediately. Unfortunately, when there is an outage, Decaf Monitor vibrates the phone until you turn the screen on and acknowledge it, and it does so after every check (which I had set to once a minute), so it's really annoying if you're in the middle of something you can drop (stuck in traffic, at the dentist). I didn't see any settings to alter that, but it's possible there is one and I just missed it. 
Because I haven't found any such app, I'm thinking I can accomplish the first goal with a cron job on the server that would ping Google or something and write a log. This seems like the simplest option for right now, but it doesn't address the longer-term goal for monitoring. 
If you need to be notified, then you will need a celphone. Preferably one that you have a means of linking up to the net with(An Android phone, for instance), but an old school GSM 3g "modem" phone is fine as well. You can then use that out of band link to send you a notification email or email-to-sms to page you of the outage or any variance with your connectivity.
If you have a known good remote point you can test, then you can implement your own ping/netcat/curl/wget tests to validate the network connection's availability as well as the latency.
I've been giving some thought to old smart phones as self contained battery backed up monitoring and notification nodes. Given that most Android phones can be coaxed to run Java or get a shell(same story with iPhones, Kindles, etc.), there are many options along this line.
When I scoured the Internet for such an app, it was a descent into madness. Many "monitoring" apps only check the server when you open up the app and tell it to ping. I want to set it up once, and then have the phone run checks every 1-5 minutes without any further action on my part. I don't mind it saturating my phone's data connection since I'm only really going to be wailing on it for the next 2 weeks. After that I can reduce the polling frequency.
Though, if you are thinking of a commercial venture, a Mifi for the home "data center" as the out of band link would be better.
My evaluation period is now over, so I thought I'd post a follow-up: I went with Decaf Monitor and I'd recommend it for short-term monitoring. 
I'm hoping the brilliant people of Server Fault will have some insight/recommendation on how to best accomplish this goal. Thanks. 
There were surprisingly few false alerts. When my phone lost its connection, Decaf Monitor would put an icon in the status bar indicating it couldn't connect, but wouldn't vibrate, and the icon would disappear on its own when connection was restored. 
I relatively recently signed up with a new ISP and I have about 2 weeks to determine if their uptime is sufficient for running a server. My initial plan was to install Nagios on an old laptop and store it at a friend's house, but - long story short - a server at a friend's house is not feasible. 
I have an irrational aversion to SaaS, so I was thinking since I have an always-on, always-connected Linux box in my pocket (in the form of an Android phone), surely there's some existing tool for it to monitor the server's uptime. 
If you have no need of being notified immediately, you can just log locally. This can be done on your hosting server... or on another, perhaps dedicated, monitoring box. A monitoring box would be ideal, especially if you will be hosting other peoples' hardware and/or VPS(s) in the future.
Because it's so persistent about its alerts, I don't think it's well-suited to long-term monitoring, but it was perfect for keeping a sharp eye on the server for a short period. 