Choosing a suitable name for each server helps you much in your administration. Also, it helps your clients accessing your servers.
These days, a system may have multiple interfaces, each with multiple addresses, and each address may even have multiple DNS entries associated with it.  So what does a "system hostname" even mean?
In a similar vein, we try to make the system hostname matches the hostname we use for administrative access to a system.  This helps avoid confusion when referring to the system (in email, conversations, documentation, etc).
Note that here I'm talking about "applications" and not "systems", because -- particularly  with web servers -- it's common to have multiple ip addresses on a system, associated with different hostnames and services.
2- Using names configured in /etc/hosts and/or DNS records is easier than memorizing many IP addresses.
Many applications will use the system hostname as a default identifier when they communicate elsewhere.  For example, if you're collecting syslog messages at a central server, the messages will all be tagged with the hostname of the originating system.  In an ideal world you would probably ignore this (because you don't necessarily want to trust the client), but the default behavior -- if you named all your systems "localhost" -- would result in a bunch of log messages that you wouldn't be able to associate with a specific system.
Many sites and/or supposed 'admins' are now stating that the 'hostname' attribute contain the FQDN of the OS instance, which 'breaks' any resolution which appends the 'domainname' to it:
Trying to maintain name to ip mappings in your /etc/hosts file quickly becomes difficult as you manage an increasing number of systems.  It's very easy to for the local hosts file to fall out of sync with respect to DNS, potentially leading to confusion and in some cases malfunction (because something tries to bind to an ip address that no longer exists on the system, for example).
You want to have proper forward and reverse DNS entries for your applications in order to avoid confusion.  You need some forward entry (name -> ip address) for people to be able to access your application conveniently.  Having the reverse entry match is useful for an number of reasons -- for example, it helps you correctly identify the application if you find the corresponding ip address in a log.
Properly working forward and reverse DNS resolution is the absolute cornerstone of every IT installation on this planet. Never ever underestimate the necessity of a well maintained DNS and proper hostname resolution!  
As other folks have pointed out, the system hostname is also a useful identifier if you find yourself remotely accessing a number of system.  If you've got five windows attached to a systems named "localhost" then you're going to have a hard time keeping them straight.