The problem with dealing with laptops is that the graphics are integrated into the motherboard, so if the graphics chipset fails, you're going to have to replace the whole motherboard 99% of the time.
If it's not the connector (and it might well not be, considering that an external display doesn't work either), you probably have a fried graphics adapter. This is likely not to be repairable without changing the motherboard. Asus might sell you one, but for a dissuasive price. You can try buying an identical laptop that's broken in a different way and combine the parts, but without knowing precisely where the fault is it's still financially risky.
Of course, considering the rate at which technology advances, chances are that the paying the repair costs won't make sense, and you might consider buying a new laptop instead.
I have found that the laptop's screen backlight tent to fail very often. Check if you have a very faint image in the screen. Use a torch of a lamp to illuminate your screen, if you see something congrats, the fix is very easy. Take your laptop to a repair shop they will change the blacklight.
Now, since you're dealing with a laptop, and unless you are extremely handy, your best bet is to pay up and send your computer to Asus for repair.
As @akseli said you could have a graphics adapter problem. to be shure of that connect a external screen using the HDMI port or the VGA port. If you get an image in the external screen, Excellent!! your graphics cards still works. 
Next easiest is looking for a loose display connector. That means you need to open your laptop, locate the connector, try reseating it. Google searches turn up a lot of illustrated guides, I haven't tried to locate one for your specific model.
First try unplugging your laptop from the mains and removing the battery. Wait for a few seconds, plug back in and try booting. This will take care of any BIOS problem. This is actually very unlikely to work (a blank display is not a common symptom of a BIOS issue), but it's the easiest thing to try.