I know it's tempting to go with 2TB drives as it gets you where you need to be capacity wise pretty easily but it comes at the expense of fewer spindles which means fewer IOPs and longer rebuild times when a drive dies.
I agree with what @sysadmin1138 said in his answer and voted it up but I have a few comments and my experience I'd like to add.
Keep in mind that a video server for film and multimedia with 3 users can mean many things.  It can mean 3 users streaming the same web quality video or it could mean 3 users compositing shots with a dozen or more layers of 4k uncompressed or lossless compressed frame sequences.  The type of network and storage requirements are vastly different in these two examples.  So it's hard to really give you solid advice but I'll mention what setup we used at my previous job as it's beyond the high end of that spectrum.
Our file server/storage setup was comprised of many external RAID units from Aberdeen attached to one of their servers running Linux.  We chose Linux b/c we were comfortable with it and could avoid the costly Window CALs.  Hey they add up when you have a sizable rendering farm.  But Aberdeen also sells their servers pre-configured with Windows.  They also recently started offering some ZFS NAS/SAN storage servers that are running Nexenta which may be worth a look as well.  But their hardware comes with a 5 year warranty so I would highly recommend doing something like that over building something yourself.  Monitoring wise their DAS units have an Ethernet management port with a web interface for configuring.  But they can alert you to any issues via email and snmp.
Prior to doing IT fulltime I ran a small graphics department for 8 years dealing with this sort of stuff.  We had 3 artist and close to 50 node cluster of rendering computers creating and processing image sequences, video frames, up to 64 Megapixel per frame.  We were a small company working in a niche market so budget was always an issue for us as well.
But I started that setup in 2003 with 3TB of storage and they have been growing with it since.  Now it's nearly 8 years old and most of the components have been replaced over the years.  But it's pretty simple to add additional storage to it and migrate logical volumes off the older units to decommission them.  A couple years back they also replaced the file server part of the setup.  Their current server has 4Gbit links.  Storage wise the last I heard they were a little over 40TB.
The Aberdeen DAS units were exposed to the server as multiple RAID5 LUNs at first but we eventually migrated all of them over to RAID6 LUNs and we were using LVM to manage the storage as a pool.  Each project got it's own logical volume which would grow as the project grew.  This made it easy to archive the projects as they were completed and then return the space back to the pool.  The closest thing to this on Windows without going to 3rd party filesystems and management tools like Veritas is sysadmin1138's suggestion of using Windows Dynamic Disks.  In our case RAID10 may have been a better option but our budget wouldn't allow us to give up half our capacity so we chose to stick to RAID6.  The server was able to saturate the 2 Gbit links it had at the time so I don't think that choice slowed us down that much.