I started working with databases in the 70's and tend to use data dictionary to mean the physical representation of data, and the schema to mean the logical model.
You should have a logical model because it lets you think about your database design without having to get bogged down in physical constraints.  You need to have the physical model because that will be where your data eventually lives.
A data dictionary is the list of table names, column names, lenghts, variable types and other specific, up-to-date information that will be stored in the database.
A logical schema won't exist in your database.  A logical schema is a design-centric database structure built to meet your business requirements.  It is a model that exists on a white board or in a diagraming tool.  It is like the architect's drawings of your database.
I have used these definitions for so long that I have forgotten where I first read them.  Usually when on a new project, with a new team, or new co-worker I like to confirm that we are using the terms similarly.  As with so many buzzwords in IT jargon, different people sometimes use the same terms differently, so it's good to verify.
A schema is a collection of database objects. A schema is owned by a database user and has the same name as that user. Schema objects are logical structures created by users. Objects may define areas of the database to hold data, such as tables or indexes, or may consist just of a definition, such as a views or synonyms.
Schema objects can be created and manipulated using SQL. As an administrator, you can create and manipulate schema objects, just as you can the logical and physical structures of your database.
A schema is the set of metadata (data dictionary) used by the database, typically generated using DDL. It defines attributes of the database, such as tables, columns, and properties. A database schema is a description of the data in a database.
Objects in the same schema can use storage in different tablespaces, and a tablespace can hold contain storage from different schemas.
-here is where you have your data files, redo logs, control files etc, physical objects that reside on a O.S. and are in row state. These objects are used by logical structures to make our data make sense and readable.