Finally, as I promised in the beginning, Zoomdata - a commercial product, which I thought you might want to take a look at: http://www.zoomdata.com. The reason I made an exclusion for it from my open source software compilation is due to its built-in support for big data platforms. In particular, Zoomdata provides data connectors for Cloudera Impala, Amazon Redshift, MongoDB, Spark and Hadoop, plus search engines, major database engines and streaming data.
For this answer, I have assumed that you prefer open source solutions to big data visualization. This assumption is based on budgetary details from your question. However, there is one exclusion to this - below I will add a reference to one commercial product, which I believe might be beneficial in your case (provided that you could afford that). I also assume that browser-based solutions are acceptable (I would even prefer them, unless you have specific contradictory requirements).
Visualizing large datasets is a long standing problem. One of the issues is to understand how we can show over a million points on a screen that has only about ~ million pixels. 
Naturally, the first candidate as a solution to your problem I would consider D3.js JavaScript library: http://d3js.org. However, despite flexibility and other benefits, I think that this solution is too low-level.
Disclaimer: I have no affiliation with Zoomdata whatsoever - I was just impressed by their range of connectivity options (which might cost you dearly, but that's another aspect of this topic's analysis).
Separately, I'd like to mention two open source big data analysis and visualization projects, focused on graph/network data (with some support for streaming data of that type): Cytoscape and Gephi. If you are interested in some other, more specific (maps support, etc.) or commercial (basic free tiers), projects and products, please see this awesome compilation, which I thoroughly curated to come up with the main list above and analyzed: http://blog.profitbricks.com/39-data-visualization-tools-for-big-data.
Therefore, I would recommend you to take a look at the following open source projects for big data visualization, which are powerful and flexible enough, but operate at a higher level of abstraction (some of them are based on D3.js foundation and sometimes are referred to as D3.js visualization stack).