(Sorry, this is too long for a comment as far as answers goes, probably not what you were looking for).
Windows8 uses the so called GPT - GUID Partition Table - to specify which partitions are on the disk. Because this is a totally different concept than the old MBR - Master Boot Record - partition table from the MSDOS era even windows7 still used, the partitions created with either one of these tables are not compatible to the other one.
Before you do any further damage to that partition, you should try a recovery tool that looks at your drive for abandoned data, or maybe can even restore that partition. I cannot recommend you such tool, because I regularly backup my important files.
If you happen to have a backup or were able to restore it, get a partitioning live CD and clean your drive.
Use a Ubuntu live CD and boot the laptop using it. You will be able to see the lost partitions and files. You may not be able to access the drive where windows8 is installed.
FYI, I'm writing this in IE10 on Win8 and I verified that this system, which was cleanly installed, did not install using a GPT disk type.  I can also say that my laptop is multi-booting using VHDs (Win8 is installed in a VHD - NOT VM, but a VHD) and it did not convert the drive or I wouldn't be able to boot my system as I have a BIOS and not UEFI enabled system.
As I said above, I never used windows8, everything I wrote is a wild guess. Maybe there is a simple solution to your problem, but I honestly don't think so. It basically costs Microsoft far more money to write a tool that can transfer some wrecked GPT to MBR and vice versa than putting up a warning that all data on the disk gets destroyed. And it is far more likely that you have just not read that warning and just clicked OK... and I wont even hold that against you, everybody does that ;) 
If diskpart and computer management are not displaying the old partition, I would consider it lost.  You can try recovery software (GetDataBack is often referenced as being excellent) or accept that it's gone.  If it was REALLY critical and you had no backup, then send the drive to a data recovery company.  It's not cheap, but REALLY critical data is often worth the $400+ to recover it.
Well, in theory there should be not much difference between the partitions itself. They are defined by the filesystem they are using (mostly NTFS for Windows). But a new partition table overwrites the old one and thus all information of all earlier partitions will get lost. I have no idea why windows7 only shows a small percentage of your original disk space, it cannot even read the GPT, thus it should show you the whole disk as empty.
Windows 8 does not, by default, use GPT disks nor does it convert existing disks to GPT.  People often click through screens without realizing what they are doing and reading dialogs.  I suspect you inadvertently did something to delete the D: partition.  If you didn't, then I can only say Windows 8 is a "Consumer Preview" - a beta if you will.  There can be circumstances, combinations of hardware and mouse clicks and keyboard keys pressed that cause weird things to happen.  This is why you should NEVER install a beta operating system (or in my opinion, ANY beta software) on a system where you keep important data.  Especially if you don't have a backup.