As explained, the hardware used by it does not make it possible to operate with current Operating Systems.
And yes, I could just upgrade. But I won't. The unit is fine. I know it's still drawing power because the Phantom light still operates. I absolutely refuse to add this to landfill.
So my question is: Is there any way I can 'trick' the Us 122 into thinking it's a compatible unit? I did wonder about trying to give it the firmware upgrade for a compatible unit, but I couldn't find any info about that.
The current replacement for the US-122, the US-2x2 right now has a buy-back offer for your old hardware [though US-only] so it might be worth having a look
On the upside, chances are a new system would actually have far better DACs & be lighter on the system, probably lower latency too.
Manufacturers will only keep producing compatible drivers so long as it's reasonably simple for them to keep doing so; for instance if there was a current & an obsolete interface that could both use the same driver set [presumably as internally they'd be using the same base chipset].
I've read that the problem could stem from the fact that earlier Mac operating systems were 32 bit, and with Yosemite being 64 bit, it won't work. But it will work on 64 bit Windows systems. I've tried every driver that Tascam has available for download in the hope that one might just work, but no dice. It ran flawlessly on OS X  10.5.8 for years, despite that being unsupported. 
I've a drawer full of old audio cards, going back to the 90's... PCI, firewire, you name it - not really sure why I hang onto them any more, except for the fact there's nothing at all wrong with them that a new driver wouldn't fix. 
I've got a Tascam US 122 and it will not work with Yosemite. I've spent months searching for a solution, but there doesn't seem to be one. I can't accept that. Tascam's official line is:
As for whether it'll work with Sierra, well, that's why I'm currently moseying around support pages...
My current Line6 UX2 is probably not long for this world either. It has new drivers for Sierra, but they stopped updating the input amp simulator software a long time ago, so it's only a matter of time.