Note, it doesn't stop the GPOs from applying, but it does prevent them from being updated. To remove the local cache, alharaka has that procedure.
If you start an IT war, you can trust Administrators to perform administrative actions.. like Mac address filtering so you have no internet until you play nice.
What kinds of side-effects are we talking about? If you still have a WINS server out there, you may not even notice. If you DON'T have a WINS server, then accessing off subnet Windows workstations (like, say, Domain Controllers for login) won't work. You may have to resort to populating your lmhosts file for the DCs just so you can log in.
If, once there is a workable agreement in place, they keep breaking things in violation of that agreement, then it's time to call them on it and escalate.  You start showing the impact of the build server broken for example, complaining to bosses, etc.
It may be politics, but if he were communicating with you this problem wouldn't exist.  So, inflating the problem by not communicating back is of no better doing.
You need to document what your requirements are for the server and then work out if that means things like no global updates and that means bosses need to agree to it to.  Likewise, they probably have other requirements that they need to communicate.  There's got to be a compromise that is workable for both sides...both groups just need to be committed to finding it.
There basically is no solution that I would recommend for a production server. (yes you can fool around with disabling policy applying dlls (and windows file protection etc) and such, but that just seems unwise)
My opinion: This is not a technical problem with regard to locking out domain management from your machines.
This is about communication (and business process and policies and maybe service or operational agreements) between your group and whatever group sets the AD policies.
One method I've seen is to disable the "NetBIOS TCP/IP Helper Service". The reason this works is that the GPOs are located at a DNS domain like "addomain.example.com", and without that service turned on your local Windows stations can't turn that into an IP address for GPO processing. This has other side-effects, but at least you can still keep domained and blithely ignore network policy. 