Alternatively: If you laptop has a classic serial port or a firewire port you can do a headless install using a serial console.
Now, I love recycling computer parts, and being cheap. Recently, I have been considering to get a computer dedicated to serving media and documents to all the devices on my network. I thought instead of buying a new system, I could just use this laptop. With the screen shot, it wouldn't need to do anything except connect to the network and serve files from the hard drive.
Another option (better in my opinion) is to use the computer with a display to install Linux and all the necessary software like TeamViewer. Then move the hard drive into the headless laptop, and everything should work fine. (Linux is very good at picking the right drivers for any computer setup)
The problem I am now faced with is that since the display isn't working, I have no way to get any feedback from it at all. I can't navigate any menus to install linux (or any os for that matter). I would be fine if I could just get ssh setup, but I can't even get that far. Is there any way to use some other output or feedback method to temporarily install and configure linux?
If you are going to install some GNU/Linux distribution then you can just install the OS to the laptops drive using another computer. Luckily linux is not picky when it comes down to hardware. After that you can log in via SSH or X and continue installing you media software.
I have a laptop with a fried graphics processor. The computer will boot up, but nothing shows up on the screen. After investigating, this model of laptop has had issues with its graphics processor over heating. The laptop is out of warranty too.
It would seem like such a waste to dispose of this laptop, when everything else works fine (I know I can salvage the hdd and ram, but...)
Something you could do is test out the installation on a computer with a display, and remember every action you did to install the things you need. Then use the arrow keys to navigate the virtual menu on your headless laptop.