The “gotcha” is that each frame can have its own color map.  Remember I mentioned timing information?  A GIF file can contain many frames that tile the overall image space, have different color maps, and are displayed with a delay of zero.  Here is an alleged example:
It does look worse, but if the original has sufficiently limited range (e.g. most of it being dark brown) then it might look almost the same. But if it's very vivid and complex (e.g. encompassing all basic colors in complexity) then it will show.
Oh!  On first reading, I missed the fact that your GIFs are manifestly animated.  Well, what I wrote above still applies.  You might have, for example, a sequence of six frames for each animation update (e.g., every 30 ms): one with a delay of 30 ms, followed by five with a delay of 0 ms. These might form a 2×3 tiling of the animated region, and you can have 256 colors in each tile, for a total of 1536 (6×256) colors.
This might not be what you’re seeing, but, contrary to widespread belief, GIF images can have more than 256 colors.  A GIF file can contain many frames.  That’s how animated GIFs work — like the more complex video representations, they can store a sequence of frames (with timing information).  I may have the terminology wrong here, but the individual image frames can be smaller than the overall picture frame.  For example, you can have a 100×100 image, with a sequence of 50×50 frames, if all the animation occurs in a quadrant of the overall image.  This reduces file size by avoiding the need to duplicate the static portion of the image n times when only a small portion is actually animated.
which I downloaded from Cyde Weys’ blog.  Note: I have observed in the past that some image software — specifically, programs that don’t support animation — render only the first frame of such a file, and so do not produce the desired display.
I found it. It's called 'Dithering' when converting to "Index mode". e.g. in Gimp when doing indexing to 256 colors there's also an option to Dither with a couple of algorithms. 