We use thin clients for our call center workforce a few years back.  The price of them was far less than actual PCs and when one broke we just replaced it with a new one and sent the broken one to the manufacturer.  They really shine when you have situation where the end users don't need to do much on their system, like run a call center web-app and a couple other small applications.  These systems can really cut the downtime a person has when a system crashes, because instead of trying to fix the old system, and new  one replaces it that is just like it.  
Are the use of thin-clients an appropriate substitute for full workstations?  Are they meant for small-company IT use, or are they only useful for large implementations.  What are the perks and disadvantages for implementing such a solution in the workplace?
Places where there are a couple hundred or so identical computers is where it can really pay off.  You don't need a lot of techs to repair systems and you can quickly replace a broken machine which happens with some frequency.  It also helps a lot where people move frequently.  No need to move the machine, because all the machines are alike and all data that would need to be saved is on a central server.   
We've found thin clients to come in to their own in education, where you have to squeeze maximum usage out of your limited budget. Things that can really hammer a thin client server are large graphics editing, video editing and playing chess (although web surfing and even YouTube videos seem to work just fine), so we still use "fat" clients for some tasks, everywhere else thin clients work just fine. We're now looking at putting small servers in classrooms, each handling that classes workstations - gives the teacher control of workstations and means you only have to run one network point per classroom.
I worked in a manufacturing environment that would constantly kill normal PCs due to metal dust and heat.  Thin-clients were great in this hostile environment because even if one failed, it was easy to replace.  Also, power spikes to due high voltage equipment may burn out a thin-client, but none of the data was lost because it was being run from a separate location.