You can add the launch command for your particular application to rc.local using 'sudo nano /etc/rc.local' if you add it above the final line that says exit 0 then it will run that command on boot.
I wouldn't start replacing the sd card every time the power goes out unless it actually gets corrupted. You'll end up spending a fortune on sd cards when you probably don't need to. If you do end up with a corrupt card then a re format should solve it most of the time. That said its never a bad idea to have a back up and the best thing with a pi is you can clone the sd card once your setup and so if one does start having issues take that card out and while your reformatting or investigating that card you can just plug the other one in and carry as normal. 
Assuming everything works as you expect... configure the Pi to auto-launch the presentation as soon as the desktop launches.
In "Slide Show" -> "Slide Show Settings" click the "Loop & Repeat after ____" and set some number of seconds.
If you want to avoid the Pi's memory card becoming corrupted, you might want to create a cron job to shutdown the Pi each day when the museum closes.
By doing a system shutdown, all files are closed and processes and terminated so that there should be no memory card corruption.  The Pi wont deprive itself of power (it doesn't have a way to do that) so someone will have to unplug them you can get power supplies that have a tiny on/off button on the cord.)
"cron" is a unix facility that automatically runs commands at periodic times.  The "crontab" file (the "table" of "cron" entries) is the file that specifies what to do ... and when.
You can launch the presentation so that it automatically starts running via command line.  Open a Terminal and type libreoffice -show my_presentation.obp (or whatever the name is for the presentation).
This command says at "00" minutes of hour "21" (9pm) on any () day-of-the-month and any () month and any (*) day-of-the-week, run the command "shutdown -h now" (shuts the system down with a "halt" and do it immediately (normally there's a delay).
After you build your deck (you can actually import PowerPoint slide decks if you have one) make sure you set automatic slide transitions.  (You'll find slide transitions is an icon in the right margin of the user interface).
It's free.  It's similar to MS-Office.  You'll create a presentation (the module similar to "PowerPoint" is called LibreOffice "Impress").