Still, if you're determined to not use EFS, then there are already a lot of options presented here.  Another option is that you can create a Virtual Hard Disk on your hard drive, mount it in Windows and then turn on Bitlocker for the VHD. 
NTFS encryption works by applying applying AES-128 encryption to the file whilst it lives on the disk, with the key derived from your login credentials. When you double click the file, Windows automatically decrypts the file for your applications, and the data is automatically re-encrypted into the file when the application saves.
But if what you really want, is just to make, say, all of the files within C:\Users\Me\MyDocuments encrypted to your login - your best bet is NTFS encryption.
There is another built in feature called Encrypting File System which you can use. It will encrypt the contents of a file or folder for you. The encryption is locked to your Windows user account and can only be decrypted with your Windows credentials. This feature has been available since XP.
EFS is not unreliable.  The biggest problem with EFS is that people forget that it's there, and then do something like re-install their OS, or take a drive and move it to another computer.  Then they want to try and recover their files, but since they didn't bother saving a copy of their keys... no can do (which is a good thing, because if you can't recover your files without a key, nobody else can either).
You can find horror stories about anything on the web.  There are tons of them about Windows 8 already.  Most people just do not have problems, and when they do... it's usually their own fault.
In order to use NTFS encryption, right click on any file or folder and view Properties. On the first screen that comes up, press "Advanced" and then check the box saying "Encrypt contents to secure data" and wait for the action to complete.
Generally speaking, tools tend to either encrypt partitions (i.e. continuous section of disk space comprising of multiple files, folders and meta data) or files.
If you want to encrypt a full partition, your two best choices are really BitLocker and TrueCrypt, as have been already mentioned in other questions.
When another user (even an Administrator) attempts to open your file, they will be prompted for your username and password. If they are unable to provide those login credentials, they will be unable to reconstruct the AES-128 bit key, and hence they will be unable to view your files. Similarly someone who obtains a forensic image of your drive will be unable to reconstruct the files without having access to your login credentials.
Bitlocker is (kind of) a nickname for Bitlocker Drive Encryption. It works only on whole partitions.
As long as you keep your key safe and secure it's perfectly reliable and does what you're looking for. 
If you only want to encrypt part of a partition I recommend EFS. I don't know what happened to that guy's files (I don't think he does either), but MS is usually good with backwards compatibility and I don't see version changes in EFS breaking his ability to read his own files.