AD is great at managing windows to a fine degree, but if you don't need that, you're buying yourself a learning curve that won't likely bring a great deal of benefit.
OpenLDAP can be used for checking passwords but it is mostly a centralized way to manage identities.  AD integrates ldap, kerberos, DNS, and DHCP.  It is a much more comprehensive system than just OpenLDAP by itself.
You should also have a look at Fedora directory server (which apparently is now officially "389 directory server"), based on the Netscape LDAP codebase. It's sold by RedHat under their brand, and so is actively maintained. I've heard it's nicer than OpenLDAP in some respects, although I've never used it myself. It's probably closer to AD in functionality than OpenLdap by itself, which is really only the core of a fully fledged directory system.
If cost would be an issue, you could create a setup with Linux and some additional software, like Nitrobit Group policy, that would allow a comparable amount of functionality, but with a steep learning curve. 
Products like Suse SLES and Redhat Enterprise Server (or CentOS) make integrating Win and Linux easier than, say Ubuntu or Debian Servers, but it's still a lot to learn. 
There is also Apache Directory Server, which is pure Java and also looks like it's actively developed. 
AD offers things like Group Policies and other management stuff you won't get very easy with an openLDAP solution, it's a snap to install a basic deployment of Windows Server and integrate it with XP/Vista/7 clients, and integration of Ubuntu clients is of comparable difficulty with AD and openLDAP. 
From a management perspective, you could simply install AD on a pair of win2k3 servers and point all the unix systems at it and use the AD servers only for password checking.  It is super trivial to make a unix system with pam use kerberos for password checking and local password files for authorization.  It isn't quite as good as full AD integration but is also trivial to implement.