The reason I ask is that in an embedded system we're developing for, we need to get the default gateway associated with a particular interface. Is this just a display issue where it's showing the same default gateway twice? Or does having multiple default gateways on 1 interface mean something that I should have to take into account.
Is it valid to have multiple default gateways associated with the same interface. I thought that didn't make sense, but I'm seeing this on my laptop
The default route, even as shown above in 2 lines, is still the same node. (10.1.1.1)  The only difference between the two is the Metric column.  This is typically counted in hops.  Has anything changed in your network topology that would impact this field?  It's likely only displaying twice because of this.  Reboot or restart the network services and this should clear.
With a "real" routing protocol you can have different routes with the same destination (although one wouldn't speak of multiple "default" gateways) which would be selected according their routing "cost" e.g. the higher the "metric" on the route, the lower the chance of the route actually being used. When there's network contention, the metrics will be dynamically adapted to reflect this, so that in this case it would be possible that another route to the same destination could be selected.
It's not really valid to have multiple default gateways on the same machine let alone on a single interface. Sure there's some tiny edge cases where it might help but I've never come across any that jump to mind. You generally have a default then statics to anything outside that.
What distribution are you using?  In Red Hat, you can check the default gateway in /etc/sysconfig/network.  By using the route command you will be subject to any unexepected output like you see here.  Stick to getting the default route from the OS documented configuration, not another binary.
When you look carefully, you see different values in the "metric" column. Everything else is equal so I suspect some mis(-auto-)configuration. 