If you have 42 columns to store and you are selecting only 4 columns, then yes the other columns can affect the query since it increases the amount of disk I/O the server uses to select the wider table. 
Will it be faster?  It should be, but it all depends on what else is involved in the process but not explicitly mentioned in your question.
Likewise, a covering index for the 4 columns could also be processed with less I/O than the wider 42 column select.
This results in a sort-of cache dilution, where you may require more memory than if you were to normalize the schema and split into a few different tables.
You are looking at 40M rows per year?  Will you be deleting "old" records?  If so horizontal partitioning is an excellent use case.  Set up weekly or monthly or yearly partitions (but strive for 5-50 partitions) and use DROP PARTITION and REORGANIZE PARTITION.  Details in my blog.
I have a table to store social media information for users; I have 42 columns to store and will have 100000 entries per day to store. I am planning to have MyIsam engine for it and will use horizontal partioning for the table but my questions are 
Since the granularity of caching is done at a page level (both in InnoDB and de-facto in MyISAM due to filesystem block), having large 42-column rows means that you will fit fewer rows per page on average and there is no split where the hot sub-set of columns are kept in memory while the inactive ones can not.
(Note: InnoDB does overflow large text/varchar/blob columns to separate pages.  I agree with Rick's comment that InnoDB is the way to go.)
If you primarily need the 4 columns, doing a vertical partition would give a smaller I/O overhead and could result in better performance for that query. 
Vertical partitioning is sometimes useful.  Again, need more details to give a straight answer.  Let's see SHOW CREATE TABLE.  If the 38 columns are full of TEXT and big VARCHARs, then vertical partitioning is probably a good idea for MyISAM, but less useful for InnoDB, since the latter engine may put such columns in another place anyway.  If the 4 columns are wider than the 38, then this argument does not hold much weight.
Horizontal PARTITIONing, without a clear picture of why, is usually a mistake.  There are very few cases where such is beneficial to performance.  Please describe your PARTITION BY... clause and why you think it will help.