My symptoms are exactly the same (false temperature alerts from the BMC for cpus that then cause the fans to spin up to max and stay there). I have tried the automatic smart fan setting in the bios as well as setting to a specific level (1-10). Doesn't seem to make a difference. It behaves as expected until the first false temp alerts (usually several times a week, sometimes several times a day).
This sounds like you might want to put some kind of monitoring in place, to see if there actually a CPU spike during these events.
Randomly all of the fans, CPU and case, start spinning at full speed. The only way to slow them down is to restart the system. It has happened 5-10 times in the month I have had the system. I have software monitoring the system every 60 seconds. Sometimes it records a 'CPU_BSP1 Temp' of ~95C around the time the fans speed up. This is only recorded a single time, so the minute before and after it is at the normal temperature of ~38C. This high temperature isn't always recorded when the fans speed up and sometimes the high temperature is recorded but the fans don't speed up so it may or may not be related.
It may be there is something (or some combination of things) causing a legitimate spike in CPU usage. That may or may not be compounded by motherboard issues, or indeed by something in your cooling setup. 
I have had the system for about a month. I am running Proxmox on it and it is on 24/7. The CPU fans are set to adjust automatically in the BIOS based on temperature, I think it is called 'smart control'. The case fans are set to a specific level in the BIOS so they should always be the same speed.
There are a few others that have posted about the same issue (See newegg comments on this motherboard, for examples), and I have yet to see a solution other than RMA to ASRock Rack. 
I am thinking the CPU_BSP1 temperature sensor is bad but it is weird that it fails only briefly. Any ideas what could be wrong? Thanks.
You mention having monitoring in place to detect the temperature spike, but don't mention whether there is system activity correlating to the event.