I don't know if RAID subsystems can actually do this though, but I am just experimenting with ZFS to see if I can do it.  I know ZFS will let you just JBOD all the disks together, but that leaves you open to the whole disk pack becoming unusable if only one disk fails.
Ars Technica has a good write up on the Drobo here: http://arstechnica.com/business/raising-your-tech-iq/2011/03/drobo-review-1.ars
Instead, use the space you have and do dual incremental backups at night.  You'll get better performance, better data security, and the ability to restore files from backup.   If your primary drive fails, swap it out for last night's backup.  It's like 10 minutes to do it if you take a lunch break in the middle.
Obviously this will leave you with unused space on the two larger-capacity drives.  You could then do RAID-1 to use up another 1TB on the two larger disks.
Why waste the space?  Do you really run mission critical data at home that need seven nines of live availability?  You're wasting space and potentially creating slower NAS performance.
You can set up a RAID 5 with these drives, but it would be a complete waste.  The RAID will be 3 times the capacity of the smallest drive, so 1.5TB.
Drobo's are pricey but allow you to group drive of various sizes using their own "raid-ish" scheme. The two biggest issues I have had with NAS boxes is some devices have their OS on one of the drives, if it fails then you have to do some really arcane stuff to get the OS back on the replacement drive. Second issue is rebuilding a array for a failed drive is very time consuming. For any NAS device that shouldn't be your only backup, it should be seen as a convenient access point.
What would be nice would be if you could create a JBOD of a 500GB and the 1.5TB drive to make 2TB and then mirror that (RAID 1) with the 2TB drive.  That would give you a 2TB mirror and one 500GB drive left over.
Alternatively, as Chopper3 suggested, you could use something like Drobo to allow you to slap in disks of all shapes and sizes.  But your disks wouldn't be readable by other systems in future if your Drobo failed.
I suggest not doing RAID for a home NAS.  There's no reason to do it other than to be able to tell people you have a RAID. "I run my home NAS in a RAID 5, and so I'm an uber-geek and you should think I'm cool because of it."
This would leave you with 0.5TB of unused space on your largest drive, which you could then use as a rather excessive OS/swap partition - if you didn't care about redundancy for this.