Just to be clear my goal is to allow adAccount1 to access only the 9 identified servers and right now it can access all but one.
I don't know how to troubleshoot the issue further. The server is on a different Vlan then the other servers, so I tried a wireshark capture on srv09, but all I see is rds traffic between the client and server. Does anyone know the process of how the Logonworkstation attribute is processed during log in? Does the domain controller proved a list of approved computers to the client or the server? 
The second solution you can try is to add the source workstation (from wich RDP connection is initiated) to the Logonworkstations list, but i think this is not the option in most cases.
The way to do this is put your admins in a group.  Give that group access on the servers and explicitly deny access on workstations.  Put this in GPO and you have it.  Then when you get a new admin, you put their server admin account in one group and it has all the access it needs, and is prevented from accessing non-allowed hosts.  GPO enforces all of it.
If all you want to do is limit who can RDP in to a computer, that particular method is pretty terrible. You should instead create an AD group with that user in it, and add that group to the Remote Desktop Users group on the servers in question.
To clarify, your GPO puts the server admin group into the Remote Desktop Group on the local machines where login is allowed.  And it puts them in the local login denied group on all other machines.  This GPO (or a separate one) also gives the local system Remote Desktop Group (built in on Server) the permissions to use Remote Desktop.
I suspect you're trying to set up server admin group which cannot log into a workstation.  One reason is defense against Pass-The-Hash, through Role Based Access groups.  
I have added a server srv09 to the "logOnWorkstations" for an active directory account adAccount1. It previously had 8 other server names in the field and the account can access them, but Remote desktop-ing into the new server fails with the following error