My advice - kryptonite locks (to slow them down), physical security (locks, security at front desk) or if you don't have those, just take the laptop with you.
When an attacker steals the laptop itself, you are pretty much at the mercy of the attacker. If you work for a corporate, and they are a common thief looking for quick money it may be worth their while selling the laptop to a criminal group, who may be motivated to break in. This is likely to be simple, and as the machine is already on, you don't have the protection of any full disk encryption you may have installed.
However, all they would have to do is shut down the computer, take out the hard drive and connect it to their computer, replace the password file, put the hard drive back in, turn on the computer, and log in with the new password (or use a live CD to do the same). No brute forcing would even be necessary.
On Linux at least, if an attacker were able to get shell access on the computer, either under your user account or the root account, (s)he could kill the screensaver process, which would unlock the desktop. Of course, that still requires the attacker to guess your login credentials somehow, so it doesn't really reduce security that much. Just don't leave yourself logged in on virtual terminals.  (Of course, if an attacker could exploit some software bug to get that shell access without actually logging in, you know what happens...)
Basically firewire was designed to have direct memory access, and security wasn't really considered :-)
In terms of getting into your account, it's really no different than logging out/shutting down. The only difference is that in order to brute force their way in, they only need your password, rather than a username + password combo, so that makes it technically easier to break into.
If he is running Windows XP then yes, if he has a firewire port an attacker can get direct access to this system while it remains on the desk without requiring any login account or password. I understand this was fixed in a late service pack and that Win 7 is not vulnerable, however I can't confirm that.