Disk capacity will limit the volume size to the maximum that can be supported by the smallest disk.  Depending on the capabilities of the controller you may be able to use the remaining space on the other disks for a different array.  Some controllers will support a M:M relationship between disks and arrays and others won't.
At best any striped RAID configuration will support reading one stripe per physical disk per revolution.  There is no inherent reason why it won't work but anything reading in a round robin will be held back by the slowest disk.  
The Dell Perc controllers are the only ones I have much experience with, and with these controllers you can use any combination of disks that you want. The smallest disk will constrain the capacity and the slowest disk will constrain the speed.
But this is an odd question. If you're paying all that money for a shiny new RAID controller why would you handicap it by using old disks? I have occasionally had to use an old disk when a disk failed and I didn't have a new replacement to hand. I wouldn't recommend it though.
Asynchronous or random I/O will be mostly a function of the total IOPS available from the physical array but any applications with a dependency on previous reads (i.e. non-async blocking I/O) may experience bottlenecks from the slower disks.  Parity writes waiting on the slower disks will be held up until all I/O finishes.
At a guess I would expect it to work with some but not all I/O being held up by the 10k disks.  Some RAID configurations require synchronised disk spindles but RAID-5 does not.
It's generally strongly advised to use disks of the same model and the same firmware revision in a RAID array, to minimize risk. It's technically possible to mix about any  disks together, however your array will be slowed down by the slowest disk; the slowing down can be even worse than expected, because data striping is done the same way on all disks; if one is slower, the others may miss access and make an additional rotation, adding even more latency, giving you abysmal performance. This will add stress the the disks too, greatly adding to the risk of failure.
So to be short : Don't do it. Unless it's to test, or learn about RAID, but never ever put such a setup in production.