The Fedora box I have used for a couple of weeks to do development on, the FreeBSD box I have installed a few days ago to polish my FreeBSD skills, which largely have been dormant over the past couple of years. I have installed very few ports on the FreeBSD box.
The FreeBSD box now shows almost no cache, 60M in buffers, 33M of active RAM, 27M of inactive RAM and 68M 'wired'. The FreeBSD 'top' utility shows a total of 355M RAM free out of the same 512M.
So, to make a long story short, don't stare yourself blind on stuff like this. Go with the *nix that you're most comfortable with or the one you are willing to invest some time in.
The Fedora box now shows 22M in buffers, 80M in cache and 100M in use out of 512M. Basically, that leaves around 400M of free RAM.
Now, first of all, I'm a Linux guy, so I'm not one to explain in detail the meaning of the various memory states on FreeBSD. You can read a bit about it here though. Second of all, of course this is not a serious test. It's just to provide an indication. What is does show, however, is that no matter how you put it, the differences between the two operating systems is going to be small, either way.
I'm assuming those last points are an issue, as you are clearly looking for something that can provide a lean & mean platform for some application.
Ask yourself (and tell us): why is it so important to have a couple of megs of extra free RAM in your server? What does that gain you? And what does it cost you, both in terms of money and other performance factors? Are you on a VPS and do you have to pay for CPU cycles? Will FreeBSD support your hardware? Does FreeBSD provide the same IO throughput on your specific server? Does your application support FreeBSD? 
FreeBSD has a pretty decent userbase of very knowledgeable people. I wouldn't worry about that too much. Bigger issue would be your personal experience and knowledge on the matter.
Anyway, I got a bit curious myself, so I started a couple of KVM virtual machines on my laptop. I'm currently into Django development, so I this is what both of them are running: Django (manage runserver, nothing fancy on the FreeBSD box, a development project on a Fedora 12 box), PostgreSQL 8 and Cherokee, just so to have something running.