We have a cold-testing facility for our engineers in northern Minnesota.  About 10 years ago the T1 we had up there went dead.  We had moved servers down from that facility to our main datacenter because we had installed the faster line so just about everything was useless up there.  Come to find out that some farmer in central Minnesota had run through the fiber with some piece of farm equipment.  We were none too happy that the fiber was even accessible to that piece of equipment and not buried much deeper...
Talked her through some basic troubleshooting and noticed she had a static IP so started talking her through setting this to DHCP. I opened up the properties on the LAN connection on the server to use while I talked her through what to do. After getting her to try and set it back to DHCP it still had a static IP so asked her to disable the connection and re-enable it.
I deleted someone's account by mistake, got the names mixed up with the one I was suspose to delete. Opps
Nagios pinged us one morning when business hours started to say that it couldn't connect to a non-critical server. Ok, hike to the server room. It's an old server, a Dell 1650 purchased in '02, and we knew that the 1650s have been having hardware problems. The PFY stabs the power button. Nothing. Hit it again, and hold it for five seconds to 'force power on' ... which overrides the BMC's error protection, since without a DRAC there's no way to examine the BMC logs without having the power on to the chassis. 
Took maybe 10 minutes for the other engineers to stop laughing at me before one of them had to go drive for an hour to re-enable the NIC at the customers site.
While on the phone with them, I quickly re-created their account, re-attached their old mailbox to it (thankfully Exchange doesn't delete mailboxes right away) and pointed it back to their old user files.
The machine starts POST, and then dies again. I'm standing above it and go, "I smell smoke." We pull the server out on it's rails, and one of the power supplies feels warm, so the PFY pulls it and is about to close the box back up. I say, "No, that's not power supply smoke, that's motherboard smoke." 
The worst part for me was recognizing that I'd smoked enough hardware to recognize the difference between the smell of a burnt motherboard and a burnt power supply. 
This happened when I had just started my first support job out of uni, I was connected in to a customer's 2003 server trying to get on to one of the user's machines after they had complained about connectivity problems.
We open the case again and look for the source of the burning smell. Turns out an inductor coil and a capacitor something blew off the voltage regulator on the motherboard, and sprayed molten copper and capacitor goop across everything, shorting a bunch of stuff and basically making a big mess. 
Now by this point I was doing everything I was telling her to on the server without actually changing any settings, right up until the point I asked her to right click on the LAN connection and hit disable which I then proceeded to do too.
The cool part is they never knew what happened.  Got the call they couldn't log in, the penny dropped about the account I deleted.