There's also some information about a software interface to the unit called the Programmator. (GROAN!) I'd post the link, but I don't have enough reputation points. I found it by Googling "panasonic kx ta308 programming manual". Perhaps that will help.
My boss wants me to find out who is costing us so much on our phone bills. On our phone bill, we can only see the numbers that are dialed, obviously we can't see what extension dialed them. We've spoken to our phone company but they're no use really.
I think your best shot to find a company in your area that services this particular PBX and see if they can get you the installation, user, and programming manuals.
Wouldn't it be easier to ask the employees who's been calling the number or calling the number yourself and asking them who's been calling them? Every problem doesn't require a technical solution. Also, as others have said, contact a local vendor that services that brand PBX and ask them for assistance. They'll have the correct software and hardware and can help you set things up.
You can find the User Manual online and it does seem to indicate that logs can be taken by the unit and retrieved later by an "operator." It doesn't go into great detail as to how to do that, however. 
How do I connect my PC to our PBX? And what do I use to download the data? We have a PBX system (Panasonic KX TA 308) -- I've read that I can connect via a COM port and download call data using software. I have offered to code this myself, but my boss is worried it won't be worth the time it would take, so he would rather go with specialized software ready to use that doesn't require too much work to set up.
Using a Call Accounting Software it the right approach in this case. Look for one software that supports your model. Include "SMDR" or "CDR" keyboard in your search, these are the common names for call accounting logs you want to capture and parse.
I feel your pain. I have been wrestling with a PBX system recently and they can be a pain to figure out if you've not been there for the installation. 