These are cases where this user's abuse of resources has a direct impact on your job, which means you can quantify this as a measureable loss of money to your employer when you tally up how much effort from you, or your team, is required to maintain his/her habits.  In this case, you would have to do something about this before you wind up becoming the person made responsible for this, and you "pay for it."
Yes...because downloading porn is 100% safe.  Running programs like metasploit won't ever crash a server.  Because sending unsolicited emails won't raise question about the companies reputation and standards.  And because installing unknown, third party software won't ever be malicious or cause security issues.
Running hacking software - thats ok also.  there can be legitimate reasons for doing this, the most common of which is for "the learning experience".  maybe this employee really wants to understand his environment better.
IMO, if I was in your shoes I would want that person gone.  What happens down the line when they gets busted for something and then you're in the scope now because of the "Why didn't you report this?" aspect.  Now it looks like you can't do your job.  Unless you work for Vivid Entertainment I would say the unacceptable barrier was crossed long ago.
I think that as long as the actions have no direct impact on the ability for you to maintain the network/connectivity, this is not an issue for a sysadmin to resolve.  As the other answer indicates, this is an HR (or some such) issue.
Downloading pornography - just tell him face to face to stop doing that.  tell him that if he wants to do that, get a cellular wireless network to do it on and dont use the business network.
Installing software / tampering with the system -  remove their account or reduce their priveledges on the system without telling them.   if they need access, let them ask.
Sending unsolicited email - make the email log public so that everyone in the company can see who sends emails to what address.   you can do this with a bash script cron.weekly job if your a system admin with a little skill.
Attempting unauthorized access - nothing wrong with trying.  basically he is exposing problems in the network that the system admin didn't catch.