For the images within the slides, I use other software (e.g. Illustrator or Photoshop) and then place the files within InDesign.
On the hardware part, get some pointing device as using your hand is bad style. Some people use sticks, others lasers. Note that there are wireless (via USB dongle) gadgets that combine a laser pointer with keys to navigate a slides. I think those are very useful since you do not have to move to your PC for every slide change.
InDesign is a page layout program: its intended purpose is laying out magazine articles, with the text wrapping around the figures etc, but it's easily adapted to a slide-like format. For me it gives a good balance between WYSIWIG placement of content on the page (I don't want to fight with LaTeX about where exactly the figures and the text are placed in relation to each other) and professional content layout (e.g. proper handling of vector graphics rather than just rasterizing everything, and easy snapping of content to alignment lines rather than having to align things by eye and hope it's close enough).
Last but not least, you need a timer/alarm-clock you can easily and inconspicuously read off to check your time.
Especially in TCS/maths, the good old blackboard can be of good use for proofs and examples. If there is none available or you have to project or record, try software implementations such as Lecturnity.
What I don't get with this setup is support for mathematical formulas that include anything more complicated than subscripts and superscripts. But I think that in general that sort of thing is best avoided in talk slides anyway.
I don't really recommend this — it's an expensive way to go for what it does, though in my case it came bundled with other software I needed anyway — but I generally use Adobe InDesign to make my slide shows as pdf files, and then use either Adobe Reader or Apple's Preview to present them.
nobody has mentioned http://prezi.com/ - innovative tool for presentation. Yet limited on formulas and other scientific stuff, but you can embed images with your graphs. 