I assume, you are going to do a Clean install of the OS. If yes then your data on C:\ will be LOST. However, if you do a repair (do that only if you don't have a cracked version of Windows), then your data will NOT be lost. 
You want to do a repair installation. The first option you get for repair will bring you to a console, you don't want that. The second time you are able to press R for repair is when you are choosing whether or not to format the drive, etc. Press R there and it will replace system files but leave personal data and user accounts right where they are.
So, will my My Documents folder be deleted?  How can I know?  The only reason I am bothering to try to reinstall to this existing partition is to go recover some personal stuff like old photos and videos, so if this folder is going to be plowed, I want to choose a different recovery mechanism!
If you did not change the default location of My Documents folder, then yes, Its going to be deleted. 
This method may be used for replicating a single user account or multiple user accounts on a new installation.
I have an old laptop with a broken Windows install.  It bluescreens whenever I try to reboot it.  I want to just try to reinstall Windows XP, but I want to make sure that no personal files will be deleted during the process.  I thought this was a given, but one part of the setup process is making me ask this question.
Another option is to use a bootable Linux (Pen Drive Linux) or bootable Windows on a pendrive, recover your data & then perform  a clean Install. There are many available, just need to google. Or use Ultimate Boot CD. 
Now that I think of it, is it possible that the new security settings applied by a reinstalled OS will make it impossible for me to even access my old files?
You're done! Just log onto your user account(s) and make sure everything is back to the way you had it before the reinstall. After verifying, you can go ahead and delete the temporary user account you made. It's usually suggested you keep the backed up files for a week or two, or until you think everything is working correctly.