I have even replaced all network hardware. Still the connection can run for 3 days without problem to then suddenly freezing three to four times a day. I suspect issues on the outside infrastructure, but I can't get through to the right level of customer support, simply because the default suggestion ("Did you reset?"), is always quite effective. 
I'm not sure how widespread this is. Shaw certainly used to do this, though they probably no longer do so as it was anticompetitive and illegal in Canada. If your problems can be correlated to such behaviour (including 'peer-to-peer' downloading or the use of software such as Skype) within the past 24 hours, you may want to stop doing that, file a complaint, or switch to an ISP which does not engage in such actions.
I have recently switched ISP because of the really bad customer support of the previous ISP. The problem was that our Internet connection often was either disconnected or dysfunctional. The remedy was simply just reseting the modem. In the beginning it seems futile to complain about having to reset an internet connection, but over time it really started to become an annoyance in our household. You just don't want to go back to the basement to again reset in the middle of an interesting Youtube. 
Some ISPs do (or at least did) throttle your Internet connection if you used bittorrent, even if you were using bittorrent for legitimate reasons such as to download legal Linux ISOs. In that case, resetting the modem may result in a new IP address which would lift the throttling. Simply shutting down the bittorrent client would not lift the throttling.
you might expect problems right there, as the signal has to get through two ceilings and several walls, possibly. 
If this a wireless DSL modem, part of the question seems to beg for an answer.  the user said "You just don't want to go back to the basement to again reset in the middle of an interesting Youtube."
I need more insight in what is going on, so I am trying to understand what might cause these annoying disruptions and what causes an ADSL modem to freeze? I am not allowed to change modem hardware making me stuck with the ISP's hardware (I already have 5 ADSL modems in a drawer from previous ISP's who had the same disruptive behaviour.  
The root cause might be a software problem in the DSL modem's firmware. The DSL modem might under some circumstences enter a state where it cannot DSL sync anymore and cannot recover from that state. Resetting the modem puts the modem back into a good state and it works again for some time.
Because of this we switched ISP. For a month live was great. Unfortunately we are back at square one, where I have to reset the router often to keep the connection running. The customer support proved as ineffective as the previous one. 
I offer this answer as a point of data. Most likely, you have a problem with your DSL router, but I've seen similar behaviour so I thought I'd share.