From the very little I understand, it ships with more processors than we use (CPU on demand) - jobs can be batched and assigned a priority. This is a the typical green screen banks use, although we use all 16 colors to make things easier to read and we have some mouse click functionality in the screen.
zSeries has undergone some radical changes since it was first conceived and delievered in the 60's.  Then it was know as the 360 architecture which evolved to 370 and now 390 hardware architectures.  It also hosted a number of operating systems including VSE, TPF, z/VM (the original hypervisor for hosting multiple operating systems on the same hardware simultaneously).  The big dog is z/OS which evolved from MVT -> MVS -> MVS/SP -> MVS/XA -> z/OS.  This Operating  system was built to be highly resilient and in some shops the Operating System might stay running for years before being brought down and up (IPL'd).  
We're in the process of migrating to a new one, that came in its own IBM branded rack (the old one was just a standing floor model).
iSeries Access is just a glorified telnet program (I've connected to it over telnet via my Mac) and my website connects to it via ODBC. Aside from iSeries Access (being a windows program) there is no GUI. Its all what looks like a command prompt. iSeries Navigator exists, but we don't use it (this would be the closest to a GUI that we have)
Over the years z/OS has embraced languages and runtimes other than CICS or IMS running COBOL programs.  Today z/OS runs Java, Node, as well as a bevy of common tools and services seen on other platforms like Python, Perl, among others.
The term mainframe generally refers to large systems designed by IBM at the beginning of commercial computer manufacturing.  It was a first of a kind system built for business to host their applications and carried a value proposition that programs written today would run unchanged into the future.  Ostensibly preserving the value of the programming investment.  
I've always referred to, as do the programmers around me that work on it, a mainframe being our IBM iSeries. A main server (we have 2) with remote stations connecting to it as terminals. In our environment, the remote terminals are Windows XP Embedded thin clients running IBM iSeries Access and the programming language used on the iSeries is RPG.
There are different opinions but when most people refer to the mainframe they are thinking of IBM Z hardware (known as zSeries) and the z/OS operating system.  
In a nutshell, the mainframe is a piece of technology that has been in users hands for over 50 years, continuously innovated on and incorporates the technologies that matter to business'.  It can be clunky if you use the old terminal emulators but it also sings when interfaced with using REST APIs.
I've worked for 2 banks in the past and they all used some form of machine like this from IBM. Before we purchased this new rack, we considered moving to a blade system but that would have required much more migration time than we liked. Our iSeries admin ust to work for a casino and they had an entire room dedicated to multiple rack systems. In our industry, there is 1 other competitor, and its Intel based. Our application is written in house and was written for IBM and RPG.