I don't know if something about the special characters in the password screwed something up when the file was parsed, but I noticed that username and password were being parsed to user and pass, so decided to cut that step out by putting those values directly in the file.
I don't know if this is way too late to answer this, but for anybody else having this issue, I just spent a couple of hours banging my head against a wall with a CentOS6 VM trying to access cifs shares on the Windows 7 host.
Now I know that if I put that password into the command line, then commands will fall over due to the various special characters, which can be dealt with by preceding each of them with a backslash. For instance:
Solution found on: http://www.linuxforums.org/forum/ubuntu-linux/175662-solved-fstab-special-characters.html
Given that the only thing which has changed is the password, I'm guessing that that there are special characters in there which need to be escaped somehow.
Obviously I have changed the password above, but it does contain various non alpha-numeric characters that are in the real password.
Do you possibly have any spaces in the file, perhaps between the = signs? a -13 error can be caused by spaces in the creds file, as per the following link.  http://thinkinginsoftware.blogspot.com/2011/09/cifs-vfs-cifsmount-failed-return-code.html
But that didn't work, so clearly I'm missing something. Is anybody able to explain which characters need to be escaped in a credentials file and the correct way to escape them?
My own thinking also wonders if this might be due to an encoding issue with the file itself.  What does file -bi /etc/auto.creds.svc_account return?  Perhaps there is a stray control character?  What does opening the file with vim and running :set list show?    Perhaps it wasn't an issue before because the encoding used only "blows up" on certain characters which were not present in the password until now.  The easiest way to troubleshoot this would be to recreate the file and try again, or compare the old working password with the new one and determine what new special characters may have been introduced.
This has been working and still does for some mounts. However a password has been changed for an account which is used for connecting to a Windows server and this now contains all sorts of special characters. My credentials file /etc/auto.creds.svc_account looks a bit like this:
In the end, what worked for me was changing the password line in the credentials file to use "pass" as the parameter name. e.g.