A lot of this depends on how much you trust the public machine.  Who is running it?  If the machine or network is under the control of someone or an organization you do not trust to handle privacy issues competently, there aren't many options available to you to ENSURE your privacy.  The machine may have keyloggers (hardware or software) or other monitoring software.
If you must do this though, or if your primary concern is people who may use the public terminal after you and have similar access abilities, I'd go with the following:
And you can always try to copy/paste non-sensitive characters into another window or mix mouse copy/paste with keystrokes to confuse the picture even further.
I've heard people suggest copying any passwords or other sensitive information one character at a time using the mouse. The aim is to fool key sniffers since the basic ones (probably most keysniffers) won't look for the mouse copy/paste. 
It's possible to browse semi-anonymously and over SSL using a proxy web service like the old nph-proxy.cgi script.  Put this on a web host and accessible by HTTPS.  This will also help to bypass network-based content filters.  nph-proxy.cgi can be slow and it doesn't handle embedded stuff like flash, but it usually gets the job done when no other method is available.
I doubt you can guarantee security from a public terminal.  If your sensitive services are available via HTTPS, that will give you some protection from line sniffing or proxy servers between the workstation and the server.  However, there is no guarantee that there will not be a recording application on the computer itself such as a key-logger or desktop recording software monitoring everything that you do.  If possible, boot your own micro-OS from a portable USB storage device and work with that and connect to the server through a secure VPN or other encrypted connection.  Even that isn't foolproof though, as a hardware key-logger could potentially be installed on the keyboard or connecting cable (thieves have even done this sort of thing with ATM machines to get your card's magnetic strip and your pin number).