I have a FLAC file and a CUE file. Using the command line, I would like to split this file, with one track per file.
Hint: The file names of the FLAC and CUE files need to be exactly the same (except for the extension of course).
Drag and drop your FLAC file into the field and it will automatically unwind your FLAC file. You can then choose what you want to convert it to.
The most popular and robust software for doing this on Windows is CUETools, which is free. It's primarily a GUI app, and it can't easily be configured from the command line, but it does have a command-line interface you can use to invoke the conversion with settings that were established in the GUI.
Normally ffmpeg would still convert the file completely while mac very likely throws an error during the processing.  
Now close the GUI; your settings are saved automatically. On the command line, you can now run it with those settings:
In the GUI, choose the "convert" profile (chooser is in the upper left corner). Take note of the Template in the CUE Paths section; this defines where the new files will go. If the Action section isn't greyed out, make sure it's on Encode, with the "default" script selected. In the Mode section, choose Tracks, and uncheck the AccurateRip box, unless you want it to verify before converting. Set the Audio Output to what type of audio files you want. In the Advanced Settings (gear icon in upper right corner), CUETools tab, Gaps handling, choose either Gaps Appended or Gaps Appended + HTOA, depending on whether you want any audio that comes before track 01 to be saved to a separate file or discarded (normally it'll just be a split-second of silence).
The command will exit immediately, and a small GUI window will open to show you the progress and any error messages. This window will remain open until you click its close button. If all goes well, CUETools will write the converted audio file(s) and a converted cue sheet to a new folder. This cue sheet conversion is the main advantage over using shntool; the new .cue file will reference the split audio files. CUETools will also copy the .log file (if any) to the new folder.
I found mac (which is the command that shntool used for decoding APE files) is way less tolerant than ffmpeg if the source file contains minor errors. 
So I ended up writing a script for spliting APE file by parsing the CUE file and converting the APE file to FLAC files separated by titles using ffmpeg: