Can you share what configuration changes, aside from management information, have been made from the default state?
Please be more specific on location of server_C and Server_D. I.E. they are located in buidling x or rack x
The only possible problem from the Switch's "end" of the deal would be a configuration issue. It could be port mirroring/monitoring (where is sends all the traffic from one or more other ports to a single "monitor" port). Or there could be some usage policy (I don't think the 1800 series support bandwidth policies or similar though). You could also have vLANs setup, with a bottleneck router somewhere (just being plugged into the same switch doesn't necessarily make them all in the same broadcast domain, even if they are you could have multiple subnets in one broadcast domain, forcing the use of a router again).
It's not too far from "have you tried turning it on and off", but have you updated the firmware?  If you look at the release notes, there are a few ARP-related fixes.
As far as gathering more information so people can help troubleshoot, do you have logs from the switch itself when this is happening?  
Can you confirm that this is all the same rack or that the switch definitely has default configuration, such as port configuration, vlan, gateway.
Are either of the hosts in question running Xen server?  Do you see the problem between any other hosts (now that you've got historical graphing, you should be able to check if this happens elsewhere)?
Otherwise,sounds like from the explanation you have given that server_C and Server_D are at different data center but are still in the same network segment In order to communicate. If this is the case then you are using the max local resources to transfer the data and that would cause your issues, if the servers_C and _D use DC2 rack2 HP switch as the backbone.
Under normal situations, no, Traffic from Server A to B will not affect C to D. Also, a unidirectional flow from A to B is only utilizing the full bandwidth in one direction, Gigabit Ethernet is bi-directional, so you're really only using half of those ports' bandwidth.