Ghost 2003 was released in 2002, a few years before the AHCI specification was completed. It's hardly surprising that Ghost 2003 doesn't support AHCI. Apparently the latest enterprise version of Ghost can run in a boot environment based on either Windows or Linux, so it's likely that version does support AHCI.
To actually use AHCI, the OS (whether that's Windows, Linux or even Ghost) has to have an AHCI driver. Windows Vista and 7 include the driver, but don't install it if the boot drive's controller doesn't have AHCI enabled. Similarly, the IDE driver doesn't get installed if the IDE controller is disabled. That's why you can't just toggle the setting in the BIOS on an already installed Windows system.
You can see AHCI as the language which the controller uses to speak with the system. The disk can't see if AHCI is being used or IDE emulation. If you use AHCI, all Serial ATA features are available, while you don't need any drivers specific to your controller.
However, the Windows 7 installation disks will only work if the target drive is in IDE mode. You would then need to coax the new Windows 7 installation to convert from IDE mode to AHCI mode but I just left my second laptop in IDE mode because I want to do a quad boot system that boots Windows 7 64-bit, Windows 7 32-bit, Windows 98SE, and MS-DOS 7.10 . TurboCAD 2017 does not work right in Windows 64-bit only works right 32-bit Windows. Likewise, I do not want to have to pay $5,000 for Maxisquash's  er I mean Microsoft's latest Fortran compiler. I want Fortran aand PL/I compilers that I can afford.
You can't switch modes between IDE and AHCI on a Windows system that already has the OS on it otherwise the HDD fails to boot and you get an error "INACCESSIBLE BOOT DEVICE"... at least in Windows 10. I found out the hard way when resetting the BIOS defaults and it wouldn't boot and had to re-install the entire OS to get it to work again, only to be told by a friend later that all I had to do was put the SATA mode back to IDE again :-/