Linux is (almost) never pre-installed.  As a corollary, it means that (almost) all installations are installed by choice, by someone who thought enough to chose Linux over something else, and by someone who at least knows enough to use the installer. Having a filter of minimum computer knowledge before using the computer helps. 
I would like to also say I'm not "blaming the victim".  Computers are complicated infinite state machines.  Security is hard.  But design also matters.  Mac OS X doesn't really have any compelling security features that make it safer than Windows.  It is also pre-installed on systems, meaning anyone who can buy a Mac will get it running no matter their skill level. But it was designed as a system, with an idea of how the user thinks and will interact with the system. This cuts down not on security holes, but how likely a user will allow them to be exploited.
By contrast, Windows is the default install on most computers purchased.  You can have zero skills and buy a Windows computer and hook it to the Internet and not know anything about viruses, worms, trojans, etc, and become a zombie very quickly.
One thing I think people always ignore with Linux/Windows comparisons is the users, who they are, and how they think, act and react.  You may find the paper Folk Models of Computer Security interesting.
Finally, if you're referring to malicious code in general -- usually a "Trojan Horse", then what protects Linux is primarily the culture. Linux is a seldom-used operating system, which already limits its value as a target. But when you add to that the fact that Linux users are often exceptionally savvy and security conscious, it lowers the likelihood of a successful attack even further. If, for example, your attack plan relies on convincing a user to download and run a program to infect himself, you're dramatically less likely to convince your average Linux user to do so than your average Windows user. Therefore, malware authors when picking a platform to target, go with the obviously more fruitful target.
If by "virus" you mean "worm" -- a program that replicates itself across the Internet, then Linux is not at all immune from that attack. In fact, the original Internet worm, the "Morris Worm", replicated using Sendmail, a program that still comes pre-installed on many Linux systems. Nearly all successful attacks against Linux machines target vulnerable Internet-facing applications, such as a mail server or a web application.
None of this makes Linux invulnerable to malware.  It does mean that attacking a properly configured Linux host is even more difficult than attacking a properly configured Windows host.
If you use the correct definition of a virus--that is to say, code which modifies an existing executable--then the reason why Linux is not virus-prone is because it isn't a viable mechanism for spreading malicous code on Linux. The reason is that Linux executables are rarely transferred directly from one computer to another. Instead, programs are transferred using package-management software or by distributing source code. The fact that most Linux software is available for free from the source means that people have almost no intensive at all to copy programs from one computer to another.
Linux has a highly-dedicated geeky community working for it, Even if some malware is written, there is always a solution to it.