You can configure it on SQL Surface Area Configuration, http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms161956.aspx . 
Finally, make sure you have a login that works. The simplest way to do that is to create an explicit login on the SQL server, give it all necessary rights on your database and server and test it locally by passing the credentials in the command string. If it works, try it from the remote machine
And make sure telnet can connect. If it cannot connect, chase firewalls, wifi hub, etc until telnet works. (We just had a wifi unit, commercial grade, that firewalls every workstation from each other!)
Put only the computer name in the connection string.  With the instance listening on port 1433 there's no need for the instance name as that's the port that the client will attempt to connect to automatically.  Also with the browser service stopped you'll never be able to connect to an instance with an instance name in there as the driver can't connect to the browser to get the port number of the instance.  By connecting to what the driver thinks is the default instance (the SQL instance on port 1433) you bypass needing to connect to the browser service.
a) Check that from the workstation, you can ping the server by the name you use. (If not, use IP addy for now until you get name resolution solved)
To check your instance name, open the service manager on the server and find the "SQL Server (xxx)" service. The "xxx" will be the instance name.
The second step is to see if the specific instance exists. Typically, the first instance of MSSQL server is using the default instabnce name (. or MSSQLSERVER). If that's the case, you can omit the instance name in your connection string and keep the server name only.
Then, if both machines are on the same WIFI network, make sure your AP isn't setup for client insulation. If that's the case, you won't be able to communicate between two WIFI devices connected to the same AP.
Once you've done that and made sure you're using the correct SQL address, you should validate the connection. Check if both your machines are on the same subnet. If they aren't, make sure the firewall isn't set to only allow the local subnet to connect (typical in "home" network profile).
b) Check the ERRORLOG on the SQL Server to see what IP port it is listening on. (search for 'listening')