You probably do not want to split the existing address range. That will require changing the network mask and gateway on the end-devices, something that you seem to not want to do. Not being able to readdress devices is a huge problem. DNS and DHCP solved that problem many years ago, and if you are using specific addresses, rather than DNS, then you are doing it incorrectly. Using DNS allows you to readdress with very little pain.
Come up with a plan for your networks. Decide how many networks to start, and what each is for. Create addressing for each network. If you need the networks to share the same access switches, then you need to use VLANs, and you need to see if your existing equipment can do that.
You probably want to add more networks. You can do that with VLANs, or with completely separate links from the router. Place ACLs between the networks to restrict things. For example, you probably do not want the guest network to have access to the production network, and you do not want guests on the same network as your employees. (Many companies are now outsourcing guest networks because of the legal ramifications of guests using the network for illegal activities.)
There are many best practices. For example, having a guest network means that you really need to pay attention to security best practices, especially layer-2 security. For example, don't use VLAN 1 or a native VLAN, and disable as many layer-2 protocols (CDP/LLDP, HSRP/VRRP, etc.) as possible because they are security weaknesses. You may want to consider separating your guests with a firewall.
You need good information on traffic flows. Designing a network without understanding where traffic flows, and how much traffic there is, is a very, very bad idea. There are tools for that. NetFlow (IPFIX) is built into many network devices. You must consider bandwidth oversubscription. Cisco recommends no more than a 20:1 access to distribution oversubscription ratio. That means that for every 20 access interfaces, you have the equivalent of one access interface in the uplink. For example, an access switch with 48 gigabit interfaces would need at least 2.4 Gbps as an uplink to the distribution. Also, the recommendation is for no more than a 4:1 distribution to core bandwidth oversubscription.
There is no simple solution for this; you need a complete network redesign, with an eye toward flexibility. You should always design in flexibility and growth. You should always plan for ten times growth. If you feel inadequate for this, you should really consider using consultants to help design the new network.
Some best practices are around preventing things like spanning tree loops that can bring your network down and are hard to resolve. A current best practice is to not let a VLAN span multiple access switches. You can have multiple VLANs on an access switch, but those VLANs do not extend to other access switches. You should also not connect access switches to each other, only to distribution switches, which should not have any access interfaces on them. Many companies are headed toward layer-3 to the access switch, and that will prevent any spanning tree problems. You still enable spanning tree as a failsafe, but you don't depend on it.