Unfortunately, you'll probably need to spring for a NetLinx. They have a smaller version now (http://www.amx.com/products/NI-700.asp) which would probably be more suitable to your needs rather than springing for a NL2100 or something overkill. It has serial control for the Tandbergs and an IR interface for the TV (if it does not have serial control).
Even I would prefer Polycom equipments. They are very good, in high quality video conferencing. It could also need a good ISP connection. 
I have done quite a bit of work with AMX in the past and swear by it - but the only reason I use it is because I have never found an open source alternative. I have hacked together "solutions" running x86 Windows CE of questionable licensing integrity, but these usually end up sources of constant frustration as nothing ever works "quite right".
Have a look at one of the smaller 5" panels (http://www.amx.com/products/MVP-5150.asp) - the WiFi version is easy as pie to integrate with the NetLinx (just put a new WiFi AP in with a crossover cable to the interface, no need to touch the corporate network) and should provide a consistent user experience.
The classic way to do this would be to plunk down huge money for an AMX or Crestron panel.  This does have some advantages, and I am considering that approach, but in my initial investigation, that looks expensive, inflexible, and proprietary.
Anyone aware of an Open Source or Commercial product that takes advantage of the readily available web APIs, some simple touch screen PCs, and builds a product that is more like skinning an AJAX web app, and ideally more cost effective than the proprietary panels?
Otherwise, little more cheaper solution would be Webex from Cisco.This is also offering video conferencing with document sharing. 
On the other hand, the Tandberg video units I'm looking to control are  very thorough XML API (PDF), so some of the integration magic that Crestron and AMX consider to be a value add, I could reproduce at mashup speeds.
The rooms each have Tandberg Edge or MXP video units, I'm not looking at PC-based solutions like Skype or iChat.
I'm looking to improve the user experience in our video conference rooms, by simplifying the things users do all the time (setting up a call, muting and unmuting, panning and zooming between a few room-appropriate presets) and totally taking away the functions that we don't use or that are more likely to ruin the experience (changing the brightness of the TV, using the VNC presenter mode).