SCALE is the exponent determining how fast to scale the XP needed to level. If SCALE is 1 then each level will take XP_BASE experience. If SCALE is less than 1 then each level will take less experience than the last level. If SCALE is greater than 1 then each level will take more experience than the last level.
Where SCALE is still determining how fast to scale the XP_TO_LEVEL, but it operates a little differently.
Also, I should mention that you CAN have overlapping reward systems other than just XP/Levels. Some RPGs have job points (so you have multiple leveling/advancement systems), so that it might be awhile between (say) leveling up your Fighting skill or your Healing skill, but with enough different things leveling up you're always just a few minutes away from increasing SOMETHING. Other RPGs have random item/equipment drops, so every new encounter doesn't just give XP, but also a small chance of generating some epic loot, so you get some additional random rewards just for playing.
You can make it however you want, although typically it's on an increasing curve (so each level requires more XP than the last), because encounters/quests tend to give more XP as you progress.
I'd say it's dependent, at least partially, on the type of experience you want to create for the player. Consider two examples, the first of which is a classic turn-based RPG, the second is a Gradius III-type shooter, in which you'd like the player's power to scale based on progress since his list death, not on powerups (not to say that's a good system, just an example).
In the case of the Gradius clone, you might take a different strategy. You may want the player to level up consistently, say about every two minutes. In addition, after a play has lost a life and consequently lost all of his gained powers, you may want to help him along by leveling him/her up faster until he reaches an appropriate level for his progress through the game. In this case your formula will likely be more linear, especially since the user doesn't get to see how much experience he's getting per kill. Something like, it takes 50 XP to reach a new level and each enemy is worth 1 XP. This works great providing you are supplying him with a relatively steady stream of enemies. But, when the player dies, he loses it all! What do you do now? Each enemy should be worth more than 1 XP to meet your goal of catching him up so that the game is fair again.
The key isn't to concentrate solely on the XP-Level curve or the XP-per-encounter curve, but to compare the two of them. If the XP-Level curve increases faster than XP-per-encounter, the player will notice they are gaining levels more slowly over time, which is pretty standard for the genre. However, the danger is that if level ups get TOO few and far between in the endgame, then the player's last memory of your game will be a colossal grind, which you probably don't want either. So figure out how many encounters per level-up are acceptable in the end game, and how many encounters per level up you want in the early game, and interpolate from there.
I think it may be very simplistic but note that you also set the other elements. By using a simple equation you can easily adapt to changes midway.
Generally speaking these are done as vaguely exponential curves. http://kol.coldfront.net/thekolwiki/index.php/Advancement#Advancement_Requirements_Overview shows the formulas for Kingdom of Loathing, which are pretty standard for the MMO genre.
In the case of the RPG, your system probably operates on the assumption that a player never loses experience. Similarly, it will probably want to act based on the assumption that it's relatively easy to gain some level of proficiency in something, but difficult to master it (like most things in the real world). In this case you might want to develop a formula (like coderanger suggested) that is exponential in some regard. Where the amount of experience required to reach the next level is somehow exponentially based on your current level. Important to consider, however the rate at which your player will be receiving experience while playing. For instance, a player killing a level 63 Fire Demon would expect to receive more experience for his kill than if he had killed a level 2 Lady Bug. So when designing your formula, be sure that you take into account your XP system. Particularly since if you do not, then killing the lady bug will be just as profitable as killing harder enemies.