Why don't you ask your current sysadmin how much help he needs?  Does he look stressed out?  Is he always frazzled?  We have ~100 user workstations.   These are supported by one desktop support employee.  We also have 4 full time sys admins for dealing with the servers and the network.  On top of that, several of the developers also double as sys admins when needed.  So, look at your current employee, does he never have time to get anything done?  Add a 2nd.  Start with that, grow from there.  The number of sys admins you need depends entirely on what you do!   To answer your 2nd question, what skills to look for, that also depends on what you do.  If you just need another desktop support person, then that's what you should look for (your existing sysadmin should be able to help you know what you need).  If you need networking/server admin people then that's what you should look for.  If you need someone who does both, well, then that's what you should look for.  
I think this is a good job for a single admin, but keep in mind that you need a backup in case of illness or holidays.
Also don't forget that an excellent admin with the right tools can easily do two or three times the work of one poorly trained admin with the wrong tools.
Be careful listening to people who run large semi-public networks like college campuses; they are poor example of how many users are supported by an admin, as the number of productive staff on their network is substantially less than the number of users. I'm not trying to knock those admins at all (there are several on this site and I have the highest respect for some of them); but their networks environments and requirements are just plain different than most businesses.
If they're power users you can adjust that up a bit. Though power users tend to demand more of the network infrastructure and the services provided by servers. Adjust down for users that need hand-holding; nothing worse than trying to herd chickens. 
I've found the number of users isn't as important as the number of productive hours spent on the network. I would gauge that you need one admin for about 100k hours per year.  For a typical company this is one admin per ~50 "on their computer all day productive office workers".