All it does is clicks at the current mouse location, clicks 40 pixels below, and returns the cursor to the original location, repeating 9 more times.
This method also works for the 'never save passwords for ...' section, but it will error out if any of those are of the chrome-extension:// protocol type, in which case you will need to move the cursor down one manually.
Please note there's a warning in the console to understand the risk of running anything there. Be advised, read the above carefully to understand what you run.
The file can be viewed for security purposes on Google Drive or in a text editor (the .kmmacros files are XML formatted) and can easily be modified to delete hundreds at a time.
For X11 systems, you can load passwords.google.com and on the saved passwords page put the mouse over the top trash-can icon and from a terminal do:
Based on the answer by @bill-mcgonigle I assume it would also be possible to just use the Chrome Console
Now, Google seems to sign you out at 5 minutes sharp for each p.g.c session, so this method can only do a hundred at a time (my goodness, 20 years of saved passwords...) but it's less maddening than clicking each one individually.  Google does appear to impose a 3-second delay between each delete event.  I tried fiddling with random delays and mouse wiggles, but those don't affect the 5-minute timeout.
I did do the Chrome-side tip given above to delete all passwords, but as soon as I turned on an old device it uploaded them all again.  :angry react:
and keep the mouse over the trash can icon until it's done - the next undeleted password will move up after each previous one has been deleted.
I've run into this scenario where I only wanted to delete a large number of specific passwords. Finding no suitable alternative, I created a macro with Keyboard Maestro that deletes 10 at a time:
This worked for me, after the first time you run it, Google will ask for your password again. After that my 200+ passwords were deleted without any issue.