Also, with that method, when you create some layouts of photos in a page, you have to print them instantly, else you will not be able to save the state and you will have to start from beginning in later time. If you are OK with those limitations, then you can go through that method as that is the easiest and cheapest method.
But, there are many third party software which allow you to do more than that and there are many such software which are fully free of cost. You can find a bunch of them if you google it. Still I am suggesting you two of the cheapest (literally free of cost) and easiest software that you may try for your purpose. They have some advanced features like creating custom layout, photo editing and adding frames which may be useful.
As someone has already answered about the Print option of Windows 10, that is pretty fine to do what you wanted. But there are some limitations, like you can keep only 1, 2, 4, 8, 12 or 60 photos in a page with that method. So, if you want to create a album page with custom/odd no. of photos, then it doesn't allow you to do so. 
Another one is the Pixum Photo World software. This has some advanced tool and custom layouts which will be very much helpful for creating a nice presentation. Still using this software is very easy and straightforward.
Select a printer, paper size and select a layout from the right hand side (I've selected 9x13(4) based on you wanting ~4/page):
Edit: As somebody mentioned above, there is, in fact, a way to do this using the Print option in the Windows context menu. However, I believe that there is a rather small limitation placed upon the amount of images allowed on one page.
If I remember correctly, there has not been an easy way to do this for several years. Microsoft tends to remove certain old features which were not particularly popular. I may be incorrect, but I think that the only practical way to do this using stock Windows software is to open up a blank image of the proper dimension in Paint, then add on the images one-by-one (Paste > Paste from). If you have no qualms about using third-party software, there are many free services available online which were built for this purpose, such as PhotoJoiner, BeFunky, and Online Image Editor.
Without having way more information to go on, it sounds like standard picture printing in Windows is what you're after.