Is your system using an EFI boot partition?  If so, you would use bcdedit to add a new configuration for the second installation.
One thing to note, when you upgrade your system to Windows 10, it's actually just installing a new OS for the most part, so unless you are lacking install media for your apps a fresh install will give you the best result.  You can create install media based on your win7 key on microsoft's site somewhere I think.
Both your partitions currently have the same volume label and they are the same size (difficult to distinguish between) because one is a clone of the other.  Partition Magic (old software) and Acronis (newer) are examples of cloning tools that allow you to change the volume label (make them unique) and choose the boot partition. Acronis has an installable boot manager that allows you to choose a boot partition on-the-fly at boot time.
Alternatively, if you're feeling brave / foolish / adventurous AND you have a recent backup of your original hard drive to restore from, you could attempt a BCD repair.  Sometimes easy, sometimes very very hard to get right depending on the depth of the issues created from cloning.
If you format a drive partition during installation, any data on the partition will be erased. Be sure to back up any data you want to keep before you begin.
On the License terms page, if you accept the license terms, select I accept the license terms, and then select Next.
One other issue - did you notice if there was a separate EFI partition (meaning you have GPT configuration) - if not you might be on an MBR system which is handled differently.  
"Follow these instructions to perform a clean installation of Windows 10. If you want to upgrade to Windows 10 for free, follow the instructions in the Upgrade to Windows 10 using the tool section. If you haven’t upgraded to Windows 10 yet and perform a clean installation, you’ll need to enter a qualifying product key for Windows 7, Windows 8.1 or Windows 10 or buy a license in order to activate Windows 10. Click here for information on qualified editions.
On the Enter the product key to activate Windows page, enter your product key. The product key should be in a purchase confirmation email if you bought Windows 10. It looks like this: PRODUCT KEY: XXXXX-XXXXX-XXXXX-XXXXX-XXXXX.
On the Where do you want to install Windows? page, select the partition that you want, select the formatting option you want to perform (if needed), and then follow the instructions.
If you restart your PC and your current version of Windows starts, you might have to open a boot menu or change the boot order in your PC's BIOS or UEFI settings so that your PC boots from the media. To open a boot menu or change the boot order, you'll typically need to press a combination of keys (such as F2, F12, Delete, or Esc) immediately after you turn on your PC. For instructions on changing the boot order for your PC, check the documentation that came with your PC or go to the manufacturer's website.
When you’re ready to perform a clean installation, turn on your PC, insert the DVD or USB flash drive you created, and then shut down your PC.
a) Your particular source of Windows10 install may repartition the whole physical drive, so make sure you have a recovery plan.
If changing the boot menu or order doesn't work, try again by signing in to Windows, shutting down, and then starting your PC.
Cloning could have caused other issues with the partition table.  Best solution would be to delete the 2nd partition and make sure you can boot to the original, then perform a full install on the 2nd partition which should automatically update the EFI bootmgr files. 
If you’ve already successful activated Windows 10 on this PC, including if you upgraded by taking advantage of the free upgrade offer you won't need to enter a Windows 10 product key. You can skip the product key page by selecting the Skip button. Your PC will automatically activate later.