Try to think about this morally and ignore the temptation to create an amazing hack. I know the question is to find a way to make a winch work but there's also a higher issue at stake here.
The standard practice is to shut your servers off to protect them but, honestly, it should never come to that if this is engineered correctly.
I can't help but laugh about the whole image of a winch pulling a door open.  I've been in hundreds of data centers around the world and have never seen a setup describe such as this.
If your system is over-heating then you've a far greater risk of fire and some sort of automatic door-opening machine is a terrible idea. Failure of your thermal protection (ie, aircon) is a "shut the server down now" issue. If that server cannot go down, then implement some sort of redundancy but the problem lies with your ability to handle down-time not "how to stop the server exploding".
Rather than a remote-control winch, I'd say what you need is simply a remote-control power strip (and, ideally, an IP camera to monitor things).  Flip on the outlet for the winch, wait (x) seconds or watch the video to know when, and then flip it back off.
You could very easily script this into Nagios, and even include some elementary logic to try to guess whether the door is already open, but unless your server room has a ridiculous delta-T, paging someone to do it by hand is going to be a lot safer.
It was a long time coming but I've just had AC installed in my server room. I've also purchased a MiniGoose II from ITWatchDogs which I can't say enough about. So I'm covered by cooling, and I'll be alerted if something goes wrong but what if I'm a significant distance away? What I would really like to do is have a computer controlled winch which could be activated in the event of a problem. Can anyone suggest any hardware / software I might use for this? My MiniGoose II is capable of sending SNMP traps, emails and has consumable XML services so those could be the methods of sending / retrieving the alert. The server room has a security grate which is always locked off hours and a door which has no latch so if pulled would pop open. If our new AC system broke down it wouldn't take long before the temperature in that room hit 90. I was thinking about some sort of winch that could be activated somehow and would reel in its cable thereby opening the door.