Originally we used another brand of gear (forgot which) but they were very expensive.  Performance was a huge problem with them and we couldn't get good support from the company supplying them to the market or the manufacturer.  Not have those problems with Mikrotik.
If you are already using Cisco wireless devices throughout your network, and you have a network management system that supports them, then maybe there's some benefit to sticking with what you know. The bridge devices either need to have a good management interface built-in or you have to have good external monitoring software so that you can tell what's going on when the link misbehaves or goes down. 
I had the same issue trying to decide what to use, as was with you cisco was my first choice but then I saw the licensing and infrastruture costs so I went with a combination of Mikrotik and Ubiquity equipment, I have had great success runnning both, they are nice and customizable (although I will admit the mikrotik cli is a bit annoying at times), the Ubiquity kit is a web driven config but it is very featurefull without any of the fluff and stuff you dont really need, runs on AirOS (linux based as with the mikrotik gear) and can successfully run a 11g link of over 50Km LOS, though I have heard tell of Mikrotik gear going up to 70Km LOS with a parabolic antennae. All in all I'd say your pretty dang safe with either Mikrotik or Ubiquity gear.
There are many lesser-known vendors who make long-distance wireless bridge solutions, and many of them have been around for a long time. Because one vendor is providing both ends of the bridge, interoperability isn't as much of a concern as it is for a traditional 802.11 wireless LAN. 
I used to work for an ISP that rolled out Microtik access points across a city with both Ubiquiti and Mikrotik hana clients.  The performance was fantastic.  No, it's not a silly idea to go with Microtik over cisco.  In fact, It may be better than cisco.  You're buying a name brand with cisco, although they generally are very good.  Cisco's licencing policy has never been particular user friendly.
I am not sure it's still the case, but many vendors used to do things that aren't necessarily Wi-Fi- or 802.11-compliant to make long-distance links work better (like extending certain timeout thresholds or not acknowledging certain packets). The main downside I can see to this is that it'll be more difficult to use standard 802.11 packet analyzers to troubleshoot problems. But it looks like this MikroTik router uses vanilla 802.11abg anyway. 