In most cases you cannot disassemble the RAID and wipe free space on the underlying drives. This is because the concept of free space is tracked only within the file system, so once the RAID is disassembled there is no way of distinguishing between free and used space. There may be exceptions if the RAID implements the TRIM command, but it is still unlikely to be meaningful to try wiping free space on a disassembled RAID.
Could someone recover data from a raid 6 set if it was erased and wiped, with enough resources and time, probably. I can't think of anyone that would say the disk set is secure unless the file system had some sort of full disk encryption or the file itself was encrypted.
This works because writing to the RAID will cause both the data as well as the parity disks to be updated (usually RAID 6 will have two parity disks).
A more advanced RAID (or file system) may have features to deal better with operations that are terminated halfway through. Such features may leave data in other sectors than those primarily allocated for the file. If any such advanced features are present, the data might still exist if the file has been shredded.
In case of SSD your best bet is to use the TRIM command. In the other cases, using the shred command is usually safe enough. But if very high security against data leaks is necessary, you may need to take such drastic measures as overwriting the entire drive and then degaus and physically shred each platter.
I'm looking for a way to delete a file from a RAID 6 implementation in a secure fashion (shredding). Do I need to delete the file from the RAID, disassemble the RAID, wipe the free space of each drive, and reassemble the RAID? Will that work? Will the data remain after doing this?
It is in theory possible for a RAID implementation to offer you better protection against data leaks by encrypting each physical drive with a separate key, and store the keys as a secret sharing across all the disks. This can ensure that if defective disks in the RAID are replaced one at a time, no data can be recovered from the removed disks without breaking the encryption.
It all depends on the RAID (and file system) implementation. In a basic RAID 6 implementation, you can just shred the file before deleting it from the file system.
These concerns applies to remapped harddisk sectors. Wear leveling on SSD. File system journals as well as journals in the RAID implementation (if the RAID uses journals).