I had this issue while trying to select multiple text boxes and copy them: the background between the text went opaque white. Instead of copying, I tried duplicating, and that gave me exactly what I wanted: a copy of all the text boxes in the same positions relative to each other with no background connecting them.
Please adjust the X11 preferences for the pasteboard as described in the Inkscape FAQ: Copying and pasting in Inkscape creates pixellated images instead of copying the vector objects (and as seen in this screenshot). The changes will take effect immediately (no need to restart X11/XQuartz or Inkscape), but objects copied and pasted earlier will have to be redone.
The underlying problem is that with current Inkscape packages for Mac OS X the pasted objects are indeed pasted as bitmap images (with a solid white background), instead of being pasted as vector copies of the original vector objects.
Copied vector objects are pasted as bitmap images, and no vector information (style, path) is available in other Inkscape commands either which expect vector data on the clipboard (e.g. paste style, paste size, 'Shape: from clipboard' in pencil/pen tools, 'Paste path' in the path effect editor, etc.)
Alternatively, you can use the shortcut Ctrl-D to duplicate the selected object as this doesn't touch the clipboard.
This is a rather contrived example but is readily reproducible. The real graphics I am working with have a bunch of objects all in a single group, but I have the same results. I feel like I'm missing something. The circle no longer behaves like a circle at its destination. Instead, it acts kind of like a bitmap. I'm definitely not using the bitmap copy feature.
I'm looking for a way to copy objects from one window to another without losing the surrounding transparency.
When I copy the circle from window 1 to window 2 the transparency around the circle is lost (screenshot 2).
I have two Inkscape windows. The setup is pretty simple. In the first window I draw a filled circle and a filled rectangle in it, with the circle set on top of the rectangle to show that the area around the circle is transparent (that is, you can see the rectangle "under" the circle, see screenshot 1, left). In the second window I just drew a filled rectangle (screenshot 1, right).