Sure the Game state would be huge, but there's no reason that the Game state itself can't contain a state machine to manage its data.  Hierarchical state machines are useful.
Generally speaking, these 3 are related and change at the same time. For example, when displaying a splash screen you might map all your keys to a 'close screen' command and the update may be fading a graphic in slowly with the output just showing that graphic. But when playing a game the keys may all map to different commands and the update is changing properties of many in-game objects.
An online program (in the traditional meaning of online, ie. continually running and responding to input, rather than meaning connected to the internet) typically consists of 3 things:
Of course, if you do actually have separate types of gameplay (eg. an RPG example - World Map, Town Map, Cutscene, Combat), with differing input, updates, and output, there's no reason you couldn't have multiple states there too instead of just 1 Game state. But it depends on your game.
When you view it this way, it makes sense to separate an Intro from Character Creation and from the Game proper: each has its own set of input, update, and output rules. They're almost like self-contained programs that happen to share some data and library code. And, with this in mind, it usually makes sense to have just one Game state, since the gameplay is fairly homogeneous throughout.
I always like to the think of each "state" as a "scene". So the opening video is a scene, just a static one. The credits are a scene. The menu is a scene. The only difference between them all is the level of interactivity and game logic.
I look at it the other way. 'Menu', 'HighScores', "credits" or whathaveyou, could be considered as just another level, and then that state isn't necessarily lighter than your 'game' state (the game state just happens to have more entities in general, and different ones, but in the end it's just another level where the entities happen to show more predicatble behaviour and the 'maps' are generally less intricate). 