Any video game with 3D game graphics, that are computed in 3 dimensions. Note this makes it a super-set of the second 2.5D definition. 
2) A game rendered entirely in 3-D, but that controls exclusively along one or more 2-D planes. This style remains very popular to this day. (Examples: "Little Big Planet", "New Super Mario Bros.", "Trials HD")
Personally I use the 2nd definition. Trine, Donkey Kong, and Super Mario Bros Wii U would all be 2.5D in my opinion. Additionally the 2.5D Steam tag uses the second definition. I figure this is a good litmus test for how a typical gamer defines the concept) and as such I believe the 2nd definition is more correct. 
I supose you could really blur the lines of the definition if, for example, you use a 3D engine but restrict gameplay to a 2D plane only, but personally I'd consider something 2.5D is it looks 3D but acts 2D.
1) A game that uses 2-D rendering techniques, but controls in 3 spacial dimensions. Usually uses graphical tricks to appear as though it were actually rendered in 3-D. This was very common in the 90s, but not so much today. (Examples: "DOOM", "Duke Nukem 3D", "Wolfenstein 3D")
Now let me explain why we did that. Generally rendering a 3D world with a lot of objects in it will create too much pressure on the processing, lowering the FPS count. So to overcome this we generally created objects in 3D rendering software like Maya and rendered them as sprites. Which can be used in the game. Not to mention that the angle were considered while rendering. So to speak about this tech with publisher we normally used this term. A 3D world which looks like it's a 2D world is still technically 3D for us. So we generally didn't use the term for this method.
In my experience which definition is emphasized depends on the age of the person you are talking to. 
I am not sure what would be the more accepted definition, but I and the folks at my previous company considered "any game which looks like isometric 3D, but is rendered via 2D sprites" to be 2.5D.
One thing to note is that when using the model-view-controller architectural pattern, the first style of game has a "model" that represents data in 3 dimensions but a "view" that only displays it to the user in 2 dimensions; the second style of game is the other way around.
2.5D ("two-and-a-half-dimensional"), ¾ perspective, and pseudo-3D ar terms, mainly in the video game industry, used to describe either 2D graphical projections and similar techniques used to cause a series of images (or scenes) to simulate the appearance of being three-dimensional (3D) when in fact they are not, or gameplay in an otherwise three-dimensional video game that is restricted to a two-dimensional plane.