Your title question should probably be turned around - "What is the purpose of a modem with a built-in router?", since the modem is the critical piece, while the router is just a very good enhancement.
Taking one device as an example:  In the case of a PC, the network interface is often a separate card, or a "NIC", connected to the motherboard.  Once the modem arranges the connection with the ISP, the simplest connection is to run an Ethernet cable directly from your PC's NIC to the modem.  There are other options, to include wireless (which also requires a card, extra capability on the motherboard, or USB adapter).
Your devices have a network interface, not a modem.  The modem connects you with your Internet Service Provider (ISP).  It is programmed with all of the handshakes, login, password, anything the ISP requires to let you into their network.  
As I understand it, all devices capable of connecting to the internet these days either come with their own modem already inside them (like a modem in the motherboard of a PC, or the internal modem that comes with game consoles) or can have a small, external modem plugged into them via USB. That being said, what's the purpose of the modem inside of a hybrid modem/router, which seems to be pretty standard fare nowadays? And what's the purpose of having a modem connected between the router and the ISP? After all, don't the modems in the individual devices already do all the work?
Actually most computers these days don't have modems in them, they have ethernet. Now ethernet Is a great choice for local area networks (after all that is what it was designed for) but standard ethernet has the range of a couple good football passes. If you want to run longer distances, you need another technology such as fiber, long range ethernet, dsl, or 'broadband cable'. these technologies need adapters to work with standard ethernet, and if you are going to spend the money for an expensive link, why don't you share it with all your computers, thus the popularity of routers.
I like having a separate router, because I'm old-school, with machines running cables to the four ports typically offered. Modems, whether equipped with a router or not, typically only have one port.
For security, a hardware router is a very good idea... but it doesn't have to be a separate box.  To help keep their customers more secure, many ISPs have begun providing modems with a router built in, especially when it's capable of wireless transmission.  Or you can buy them retail.