Using the nvidia approach, I have basically what you've settled for; dual monitors + another monitor. My problem is that using this approach, none of the window managers can determine that there are actually two monitors on the left, and so maximized windows (and things like the panel) are stretched across both monitors
The solution I found meant buying some hardware, but it is working fine now (3 30" monitors, vertical orientation, Slackware64).  It seems X-windows has to have all the monitors on a given Xsceen on the same video card.  If you try it with your setup, you will see that you cannot have 1 monitor from each video card as 1 Xscreen, and the second on each video card as another Xscreen.  They have to be on the same video card.   
I know of at least a few other people that have similar setups to us, at least one friend has gotten his setup to somewhat work using fakexinerama which basically just lies to the X server about the monitors to force it to work.
I was hoping nouveau would be my knight in shining armor, but strangely no matter what I do I can't get even dual monitor to work using the nouveau drivers, using several versions (the defaults, ones from a PPA, built from source).
Hopefully my input helps you find your way to a better solution. Please keep us updated if you find anything new!
So I bought a video card, an MSI Radeon HD6990, which has 4 mini-display ports and 1 dual-link DVI port.  I had to use the mini-dp ports on all three monitors--using the DVI port for one of the monitors meant buying a dual-link active adapter for $99.00.  Note that the active adapter that came with the video card says it is active right on it, but it is a single-link active adapter, a distinction that escaped me till I saw a picture of the dual-link active dvi adapter--which has a usb cable for power as well as a dp cable.
Scarily you and I have almost the exact same setup. I have a 9800GTX Ultra and a 7900GS KO. My problem is that Xinerama doesn't work with such different GPUs. Xrandr was designed to replace xinerama, but one of the biggest features of xinerama (stitching screens together) wasn't kept ported for some reason.
This is an aside, but while running with 2 Xscreens, I only found 2 Linux programs that can switch between different X screens:  Gimp has it on one of the menus, but it only switches the main graphic screen to the other Xscreen--menus stay put, and XEmacs, which has it on the menu and it works just fine.