A good argument for putting DHCP in the remote office is to allow IP addresses to be distributed even if the WAN link is down. If, however, the branch office has no connectivity aside from the WAN link and no on-site server resources, then this probably is a moot point. Still, it's worth assessing the impact in scenarios where the WAN has failed and devices are unable to receive DHCP from your central DHCP server.
It certainly is possible to place an on-site DHCP server at the branch with "failover" functionality provided by a central DHCP server. The first DHCP server that responds to a client "wins", so in most cases a client will have a lease granted by the on-site DHCP server before a central DHCP server has time to answer. 
DHCP is UDP-based. If your WAN connection is running at close to full utilization DHCP requests may be dropped. Clients and servers will re-send but it would probably be useful to use quality-of-service functionality to guarantee that DHCP has some priority.
Most common routers support a layer-2 to layer-3 encapsulation (often called an "ip helper" or a "DHCP relay agent") to receive, encapsulate, and send DHCP requests over the layer 3 network to your central DHCP server. It's not necessary that this run on your router-- you could have standalone computer in the  branch office fulfilling this function, but it does need to happen. By default, layer 2 broadcasts in the remote office won't be forwarded by a route back to your central DHCP server.
I don't recommend this kind of ad hoc failover, though. It's not true failover, and likely will perform non-deterministically from time to time. Using DHCP server software that actually supports failover functionality, rather than this "poor man's failover", is a better solution. 
The amount of traffic between a client computer and a DHCP server is quite small, so constrained bandwidth between the DHCP server and client isn't really cause for alarm. The nature of the protocol is such that users don't use the DHCP server in an interactive manner, so latency isn't a big deal. From both a bandwidth and latency perspective DHCP is very amenable to working well across a WAN.