IPv4 also provides for fragmentation and reassembly of packets, but that has been eliminated in IPv6.
I would say the opposite - IP is designed to connect to all (IP) networks, regardless of the underlying link-layer technology supporting them (Ethernet/WLAN/WiMAX/LTE)
IS-IS could've run over IP, really (there's a similar protocol OSPF that does just that). STP runs on Ethernet switches, which might not even have IP addresses, so it really does need to run over Ethernet.
Coming at it from the other end - don't assume a host only ever has a single IP address - think about a web server hosting multiple sites bound to multiple addresses in the same subnet - the link-layer cannot provide any information for the host OS to determine which one to send it to.
That is correct - the IP layer is not required for communication within a LAN. On Ethernet for example, there's no reason a computer can't send an Ethernet frame addressed to some other computer with some non-IP data inside it.
However, professional networking gear does use such protocols. Two examples that came to mind are the IS-IS routing protocol, or STP used by Ethernet switches.
I imagine most protocols that run on IP (such as TCP) could be adapted to run over Ethernet, Token Ring, ATM, or whatever - but there would be no benefit to doing so.
However, now that the Internet is ubiquitous, TCP/IP is the most useful configuration and therefore the most work has gone into supporting it. There's rarely any reason for a commercial software vendor to make a protocol that runs directly over Ethernet, when they could make it run over IP instead, and have it be able to work on the Internet. I can't think of any protocols used by the average consumer that don't use IP, besides ARP. (NetBIOS used to be ubiquitous on Windows LANs).
Frames on a layer-2 LAN are delivered directly from one host to another host on the same LAN. To get from one LAN to another LAN, you need layer-3 (IPv4, IPX, IPV6, etc.). IPv4 and IPv6 both provide fields in the IP header for facilitating QoS, and each has various options, which may also be extended in the future.