Allowing network logon for local accounts is dangerous and a poor security practice. For administrators group members, I would actually characterize it as negligence. It enables lateral movement, and is difficult to detect and audit due to the account logons are not logged centrally (on the domain controllers).  
After reading through the thread, I still don't quite get why you would want to disable network login for local accounts.
Say I have an AD set up with a DC and multiple clients. One of the clients is John. So in the morning, John goes into work, and logs into his desktop PC with the AD credentials. At noon, John heads out for a meeting, and 'locks' his computer (windows + L). He then needs to connect to his PC back at the office using his personal laptop remotely (via RDP or something). However, using this new policy, he won't be able to do so. 
To mitigate this threat, Microsoft actually created two new builtin security identifiers to add to the "Deny access to this computer from the network" user right:  
No, your example scenario is incorrect. If he's using AD credentials to log in, everything's fine. The issue is with local accounts, that is, ones that are created on, and exist only on, individual computers. For example, .\Administrator, but this applies to any account in the computer's domain (COMPUTERNAME\USERNAME). The security risk ", AIUI, is that if local accounts (e.g. the local Administrator) share the same password across multiple machines, it's possible to extract the password hashes from the computer, and reuse the hashes in some cases to (as a malware infestation or other attacker) move laterally between computers.
The explanation that Securitay gives is that the passwords are not salted. However, how would an attacker gain access in this case? On which end is the password not salted? Or is the situation I have in my mind completely unrelated to what she is trying to say? If this is the case, what is she actually trying to say?
This question is in reference to @SwiftOnSecurity's Twitter thread: https://twitter.com/SwiftOnSecurity/status/655208224572882944