As far as power supplies are concerned this is not totally outrageous. Part of the long term management of costs for client systems includes reuse of peripherals - continuity of power supply and docking station design across generations means that you don't have to buy all the accessories when you refresh systems, you just get a replacement box. For bulk business ordering this makes sense. 
One final point is that most business class desktops and laptops now include some level of hardware remote management capability (Intel's AMT, AMD's ASF) that can provide out of band management capability with the right support infrastructure. This is of almost no benefit in consumer environments but it (should) be an important factor in a large business environment and like everything else the chip\chipset vendors like to get a nice fee for enabling these features. 
For high end business laptops and Desktops you are generally paying a huge premium for third part software certification - high end CAD\CAM\3D modelling software. When you are spending $100-$200k per workstation for software licenses you are paying to make sure that you have someone to sort your problem out if it doesn't work. These tend to be specific "workstation" class systems, such as the Dell Precision line and not your general purpose business laptop.
All of these lower the TCO of the hardware at increased up-front costs.  If your vendor is not providing any of the above for their "business" class hardware, then all they are doing is extracting more money from you.  Some things like longer refreshes may not even be important to you if you do not use standardized images.
As for the DSL thing, usually a 'business' connection carries a totally different SLA than a home connection would.
What kind of warranty do they come with? Is it a 30 day thing, or a 3 year, on site, no fault warranty? That would make sense because Netbooks are fragile, and business users are anything but careful with equipment that doesn't belong to them. The OS difference will add cost, but not much.
The only major difference will be the OS.  As a Pro version of the XP operating system, you can control and manage the machines by joining them to an Active Directory domain, and subject them to Group Policy.
Others have made the point already but if the person you are talking to can't articulate these points effectively then move on and find someone who can. 
The main reasons for the price differential are those outlined by DLux & DaveM - much longer support lifetime, longer platform refresh, more rugged components.