This is an older question, but I had this issue, and for me it was SuperFetch. I tried everything I could find on PID 4 excessive hard drive usage, and some of it helped. A RAM upgrade from 4GB to 8GB only made the issue more obvious - RAM usage was low, no paging, but yet the hard drive was lit up for ~10 minutes after my laptop booted.
Ended up disabling the automatically expand to current folder option in Explorer and that traffic goes away.
Users when having mapped drives or going out to a UNC path to a share, especially something with a good sized directory structure would all the sudden have a ton of receive traffic continuously from the host server. Normally I would see 100-300k, as soon as you expand in the nav pane it would shoot up in the 20,000k plus range.
I had the exact same symptoms. In my case they were related to Norton360 and the MS-SQL VSS service. Once I disabled VSS, my activity dropped significantly. System still locks up when Norton does it's thing, but it's semi bearable since it only seem to happen every hour.
HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\Session Manager\Memory Management\PrefetchParameters\EnableSuperfetch
So far the only downside is that my outlook folders take a few extra seconds to open, and some commonly used documents like MS Project files take longer. But those delays pale in comparison to the disk thrash I was getting before!
Change the Windows Update to not downloading and installing without manual action and wait the current installation to finish.
System process is used by Windows Update. If you have selected to install updates automatically, it is probably your systems is currently installing windows software. If you run Windows Update and try to install updates you will receive a message saying you cannot install as Windows is currently updating the system.
Posting this answer here as I stumbled over this thread when looking for answers on why system process 4 was consuming so many read/write traffic. 
Long story short, there's a registry setting that controls what level of SuperFetch is appropriate. You can see below the EnableSuperfetch value is now set to 1, which seems to be "prefetch all executables and libraries". The default is a 3, which seems to mean "prefetch all executables, libraries, and documents". I have many documents, so I think this was taking way too long. Every document opened is another one that SuperFetch has to "analyze" to see how you're using it.