That said, one way to see what MAC address is actually in use on an AP's Wi-Fi interface is to associate a client to that interface and ask the client what BSSID it's associated to. On Ubuntu I believe the "iwconfig" command will tell you this. On a Mac, you can get this by holding down the option key while clicking on the Wi-Fi Menu Extra. Note that this only tells you the MAC address of the Wi-Fi interface you're associated to on this one AP.
I know you asked Ubuntu, but this may help some: On Windows you can list every visible BSSID (usually BSSID == MAC) using:
Note that APs usually have several different MAC addresses used for different purposes. For example, each wired Ethernet port could have its own MAC address, each wireless interface could have its own MAC address (typically used as the BSSID for each BSS), and APs that can publish multiple SSIDs often have a range of MAC addresses they can use so that each SSID gets it won BSSID. For example, Cisco APs (real enterprise Cisco, not the consumer-ish Linksys-based stuff) often have a range of 16 MAC addresses they can use. So if the AP says its base MAC address is 00:11:22:33:44:50, it can actually use all the way to 00:11:22:33:44:5f for its BSSIDs. This is separate from its wired Ethernet port's MAC address.
Wi-Fi scanner tools, of which there are too many to list, can report the BSSIDs of all APs in radio range. If a single AP is has more than one BSSID, you should see them all listed. But to gather the list of all the BSSIDs of all the APs at your site, you'd have to walk around with your laptop (or whatever) to get in range of all the devices, in order to see their Beacon and Probe Response transmission so you can see their MAC addresses.
On mobile devices, you can use the free app Fing to tell which AP you are associated with (it will list all devices on your network segment, but if you just look at details on the network itself, it will tell the BSSID).
Do you even know what the MAC address on the label of your APs is supposed to be? Is it supported to be the one for the first Ethernet port? The second Ethernet port? The 2.4GHz Wi-Fi radio? The 5GHz Wi-Fi radio?
There is no widely-supported standard for finding every MAC address of every AP on a network. If being able to find that out is important to you, upgrade to an enterprise-class wireless network infrastructure solution, and use the management tools that are part of the solution you purchased.