On a slightly different note, on my smart phone I get google ads correlating to either shows I've watched repeatedly on Verizon, OR, stuff its picking up in my room through the mike in my smartphone.  One of those two things it is doing.  Does that come as a surprise to anyone?  Does everyone but me already know they're doing this?
As far as TOR,  I do have NoScript disabled, but only because disabling Javscript is a nonstarter these days, I might as well abandon the web if abandoning JS.  But, If I am pretty often completely deleting my history, what do they have to track me on.  I can delete my history right now in TOR, and also establish a new TOR identity, and if I go back into Drudge that same stupid sponsored article for Superman will be up, mocking me.  How am I still being tracked (Note: I usually use the TOR default search engine StartPage, but also Google occasionally.) 
I recently switched to using the TOR browser, in addition I periodically do a complete history delete (cookies, cache, etc).  Incidentally I also have Adblock installed for the TOR browser.  However I am still getting Taboola Sponsored articles in TOR on sites like Drudge, etc that dovetail with various specific searches I've done (within TOR)  and its extremely disconcerting  and I don't understand how its still being done.  For example,  I was doing a  search just two days ago in TOR for "Kriptonite" (was brainstorming for names for an encryption product, but not relevant).  Well just now in Drudge, one of their sponsored ads was about Superman.  I know for a fact its related to that search I did,  and I get the same sort of "sponsored" articles for other searches I do as well.  
I installed the FF Add-On Random Agent Spoofer in TOR, and selected every single option it has, just a whole litany of things it does to disable any possibility of evercookie/supercookies, or browser fingerprinting, e.g.disabling local DOM storage, disabling plugin enumeration, disabling canvas, random periodic changes to user agent, disabling system fonts, and on and on, must be 100 different things you can activate and I selected them all, IN TOR.  I even wrote my own custom add-on to intercept requests going out and change some other headers so that panopticlick gave me a better score.  
The net result: nothing.  In TOR, on say, rt.com,  I still get a couple of rows of taboola-sponsored articles correlating to specific web activity of mine over the last couple of months.  And the crazy thing is,  I have no such problem in straight Firefox.  Even without Random Agent Spoofer etc,  I am not getting taboola articles like that in straight Firefox correlating to my web activity.  I get some other default taboola articles, basically the same ones over and over that have nothing to do with me.  So, it seems like to me TOR is a scam run by the NSA or whomever, but a scam one way or the other. Not in any sense a replacement for a vpn.