The simplest way to ensure things are balanced is to make them the same. Give both sides the same powers, give them different names and change their visual effects.
I agree, that's pretty boring and likely won't give you very interesting game play. However, it's a good starting point.
Aside from the tips in the other answers, you can add self-balancing mechanics to the game. This is not a substitute for balance, but can make the job of balancing easier.
By making some skills not quite equal to their opposite, but gaining a bonus elsewhere, the game can feel more strategic since certain skills have an advantage or disadvantage. Some examples: evil can make 2 walls, good can only break 1. But good can give a minor speed buff for X seconds. Evil can stun or slow for X/2 seconds. Evil's damage hurts for just a little more than good can heal, but the heal has a slightly lower cooldown or cost.
Next up is adding unique abilities for both sides. This is where you want to do some heavy play testing. When you're adding abilities that don't have a "counter ability" on the other side, it's important to play test. Obviously you'll want to play test with all the abilities, but these are the most likely to introduce unbalanced play.
One good metric during play testing for balance is win ratio. A truly "balanced" game would have each side winning 50% of the time. Keep this in mind, as it can help with the "boringness" of equal-but-opposite that Byte56 suggests to a degree. Here's how to expand on his excellent answer:
OK, things have gotten a bit more interesting. Deities don't have the exact same abilities anymore with just different visual effects. But, still kind of boring and not really there yet.
David Sirlin has a great set of articles on balancing multiplayer games here, and an in-depth one on the self-balancing systems of Guilty Gear XX here.
Once you've got a good starting point, with good and evil having very similar "base" abilities, you expand. But you always expand both good and evil, in the same ways. Either give both sides similar abilities or give them equal but opposite abilities. Giving the evil deity a ability to create walls? Give the good deity an ability to remove walls. Giving the good deity an ability to heal over time? Give the evil deity a way to harm over time.