* Send them back a legal document where they declare FULL LEGAL AND FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY FOR MY DATA as they force me to abandon a standard layer of security (i.e. my network is not scanable from the outside). I would also ask for a 5 million USD insurance cover or bond to be deployed.
It is a good example why one should have a separate internet connection always ;) Sadly in the US you are a little more primitive than in parts of europe - here they just roll out LTE phones, which are made as mobile replacements for DSL etc. - I would jusst get a LTE router in some months and be done with them ;)
So I'm wondering: social issues aside*, would it be technically feasible to enforce this policy**? (on a university residential network's budget, of course) 
They are also concerned about non-network-savvy students getting routers and plugging them into the campus network via one of the LAN ports instead of the WAN port. When that happens, it's possible for other students' computers to get DHCP addresses from the rogue router instead of the official one, and of course the rogue router isn't going to provide any connectivity to the Internet (as its WAN port isn't plugged in to anything). This problem can be very confusing for people who think they're doing everything right, and it causes a lot of support hassle for the network department.
Recently, UC Irvine's Residential Network department changed their security policies to include the following requirement:
I don't know how they could do it, especially in a network that has to deal with more sophisticated users who might be doing things like changing their MAC address or modifying their browser's user-agent string (and isn't that particularly expensive to sniff?). 
The intent is probably more along the lines of reducing the chances of folks plugging in their equipment incorrectly and then rendering the reset of the network(s) less than usable with DHCP servers (from the NAT routers) serving incorrect IP addresses.
Now, I've only dabbled in network protocols, but I thought that it's impossible to tell if a device on your network is a router using NAT or a client that's just making a lot of connections, and that DHCP is completely OS agnostic.
While NAT is transparent on the surface, there are certain things that can hint - tons of TCP connection from one address, there are certain behavrios of certain NAT implemtentations that provide hints of the NAT implementation used.
As stated by TomTom, it is difficult to detect a "normal" client from a NAT servicing multiple clients, but in addition to higher simultaneous port/application connection usage - a NAT configuration will also tend to exhibit a larger network utilization footprint as well. The combination of more active network port connections and more bandwidth utilization can trigger more attention if active network analysis is performed.
* Presumably, after this policy change, they can now say "well, you weren't following policy, it's your job to find the computer that was infected and fix it".
On the other hand, like I said before, I've only ever dabbled in network protocols, so maybe there's something obvious I'm missing.