Got another answer on ubuntuforums.org. Disabling all accounts and re-enabling them everytime I connect to the internet appears to work. I'm using that until something better is found. 
I have this issue with my netbook, also running Ubuntu 9.04 and using Pidgin. When connected to wireless networks all is well, but when connected via my mobile phone (currently on Vodafone's UK network) I usually can not connect at all to my MSN or Yahoo accounts. I have yet to prove whether this is due to Vodaphone or some more general network issue though (at some point I plan to try run through OpenVPN, or similar, to see if that makes any difference as VF's traffic management will not see the difference between IM connections and anything else, though the VPN itself may be blocked or traffic-shaped into uselessness).
Also, as suggested by Roland, it may be a configuration issue. To rule out network issue, test whether you still have trouble accessing IM services when your machine has a wired or known-good-wireless connection. It might also be worth trying another IM clients to rule out the problem being specific to Pidgin. Also depending on which IM protocol you are trying to use you may find there is an alternative plugin that copes better by default - for example "pecan" is an alternative plugin for MSN/WindowsLive accounts.
This may be your mobile network trying to block IM applications (most mobile phone agreements stipulate that you agree not to use data connections for instant messaging, as it impacts the networks ability to earn large amounts of money sending messages for you via SMS) or it may be that the protocol you are using reacts badly to the higher latency of the mobile network (though this option is less likely) or the combination of the high latency and traffic management by the mobile phone provider.
I haven't done this in a long time, by look into using a proxy of 127.0.0.1. it should make them loop back on your internet connection. look around for more info for this. 