Where excel is weak is that the formula list is arguably limiting, for instance a SQL case statement or python statment is way more flexible than an endless chain of if functions. 
It also has an ETL tool called power query allowing you to read the data from a variety of sources (including hadoop). And it has a visualisation tool (power view & power map). A lot of Data Science is doing aggregation and top-n analysis at which power pivot excels.  Add to this the interactive nature of these tools - any user can easily drag and drop a dimension on which to break up the results adn I hope you can see the benefits. So yes you can't do machine learning, but I would question how much machine learning is done by data scientists day to day: eg when I want to analyse the prediction errors made in machine learning program I find it easiest to slice and dice the errors with excel. 
I've seen some experienced data scientists, who use Excel - either due to their preference, or due to their workplace's business and IT environment specifics (for example, many financial institutions use Excel as their major tool, at least, for modeling). However, I think that most experienced data scientists recognize the need to use tools, which are optimal for particular tasks, and adhere to this approach.
It really depends on your needs but excel definitely deserves a place in the data science hall of fame. 
Therefore, in conclusion, I think that the best answer an experienced data scientist might have to a question in regard to their preferred tool is the following: My preferred tool is the optimal one, that is the one that best fits the task at hand.
Interesting anecdote, the team who work on the Facebook newsfeed algorithm can all regularly be seen to be playing with excel and lots of spreadsheets. 
I'm surprised how many people are attached to the coolness of the profession rather than the actual job to be done. Excel is excellent tool, with free Powerpivot, Powerquery, it can do so much. (these are not available on OS X). And if you know VBA, you can do some nice stuff. And then if you add on the top of that knowledge of python you can combine the very first steps of data extraction and manipulation with python and then use excel, especially if you are a visual person. With excel you can really inspect aggregated data before feeding into any further processes or visualizing. Its a must have tool.
Excel can be an excellent tool for exploratory data analysis it really depends on your needs and of course it has its limitations like any tool, but excel definitely deserves a place in the data science hall of fame. 
Worth remembering that in practice most users will be exploring a heavily reduced data set anyway (created from an SQL query). 
Excel is powerful for exploring data when you use the "table" object in combination with pivot tables, visualising is all 1-2 clicks max and a lot of excel charts in powerpoint look great, unless your looking to create something very bespoke e.g. in a scientific computing context. The interactive nature means you can explore rapidly. 
I think most people are answering without having a good knowledge of excel. Excel (since 2010) has an in memory columnar [multi table] database , called power pivot (which allows input from csv/databases etc), allowing it to store millions of rows (it doesn't have to be loaded on a spreadsheet).
The benefits of the "table" object is that as you transform the data further in excel to enable you to explore new distributions the pivot tables all remember the variable. 
No, you cannot. This is the corollary from my above-mentioned thoughts. Data science does not automatically imply big data - there is plenty of data science work that Excel can handle quite well. Having said that, if a data scientist (even experienced one) does not have knowledge (at least, basic) of modern data science tools, including big data-focused ones, it is somewhat disturbing. This is because experimentation is deeply ingrained into the nature of data science due to exploratory data analysis being a essential and, even, a crucial part of it. Therefore, a person, who does not have an urge to explore other tools within their domain, could rank lower among candidates in the overall fit for a data science position (of course, this is quite fuzzy, as some people are very quick in learning new material, plus, people might have not had an opportunity to satisfy their interest in other tools due to various personal or workplace reasons).