Now for data access, you'd want to hook the drive up as read-only. Without the RAID controller, you have no way to keep the drives in sync if you were to write/modify any contents of the drive(s). Modification will happen if you don't specifically mount the drive as read-only. (Think of a file's last access time for example.)
For the RAID1 drives to be compatible with a different RAID1 device/enclosure, the file system used by the two RAID devices in question (the empty enclosure that holds 2, 4, 6, or more hard disks and the control system is the RAID device) has to be the same for the old RAID device and the new RAID device. Chances of that being the case for devices from 2 different manufacturers is a big guess unless you know the operating system used by both devices. But don't assume if both devices run on Linux (for example) that the file format for the 2 hard disks are going to be the same. You need to know details about the file format. If you can't find out how similar or different the file systems from your two different RAID devices are, the only safe way to move data to the newer RAID enclosure is to install hard disks and copy or "backup" the data from the old RAID device to the new RAID device.
Guys ... just thought I would post my solution in case anyone else stumbles across this message.  First of all, I did have a backup, but it was two weeks old and there where a few additional files I wanted to retrieve.  And that enclosure on Amazon is non-functional (not sure why he has it listed for sale.)  So, I pulled one of the hard drives from the non-functioning enclosure, hooked it up to my Windows XP machine with a USB to eSATA cable, and then used EASEUS Data Recovery Wizard to read the drive.  It encountered both EXT and NTSF partitions, so I assumed that my data was located in the NTSF partition, which is was, so I was able to get back that last two weeks of files.
RAID 1 is mirroring; there is no data stripping. Each drive is a copy of the other and each drive will function perfectly as a standalone 'normal' drive. Just hook it up to a computer and you'll be able to access the data. Your data is not lost. Without the enclosure, you are simply left with one drive and one exact duplicate backup. Not a bad situation.
As for migrating the two drives as-is into a device with a different RAID controller (or trying to use software RAID), I would have no faith in it working. Others could give you better advice perhaps. I've never migrated across RAID controllers so I'd be nervous and would never attempt it without an additional backup.