I clicked on the settings tab for Speakers and found all of the Equalizer Settings for the speakers.  
Once you find it Realtek Audio Console, there will be two options for adjusting the settings for Microphone and Speakers. 
You can install third-party software designed to increase the volume such as Letasoft Sound Booster or DFX Audio Enhancer. You can surely find quite a lot of them online with a quick search, I don't have any personal recommendations. 
I started a youtube video in the background and went back to the Equalizer while the video was playing and adjusted the settings to my desired levels.  
Some ASUS machines come with a software called Audio Wizard. (When you plug in a pair of headphones or a speaker, smart audio will pop up automatically, and in the bottom right corner you'll see the icon and something like "open audio wizard"). It allows you to mess around with the sound and has several settings such as "music" "movie" etc. DELETE THIS PROGRAM. After deleting this, the volume on my laptop became significantly louder. I think it was just dampening certain frequencies for effect. 
Even with the volume all the way to "11", the volume on my Asus laptop is often not loud enough. How can I increase the volume?
For an incomplete workaround, lots of software differ in how they manage sound and volume and may allow for much "louder" sound delivery. For instance VLC Media Player will allow you to set the volume higher than Windows Media Player, same with MusicBee versus Itunes, etc. But this is OK for specific uses only of course.
If drivers are OK, check if some installed sound drivers offer you customization of some kind (different than windows parameters) where you could maybe increase the volume. 
I just bought an ASUS Notebook in July 2019.  The sound was horrible!!!  I could barely hear most of the youtube videos.
I actually have an Asus Vivobook myself and the sound is actually pretty low to be honest so it could be normal yet annoying. 
If at this point you still want to increase the volume it is possible to some extent but it will very likely result in some quality decrease. 
As mentioned in an answer, make sure that the Windows (or other OS) parameters on Sound/Speakers are set to maximum.
But to be safe make sure all sound-related drivers are correctly installed and up-to-date. Sound may be low but it should definitely be audible.
I found out how to solve this problem on my own 2019 laptop and couldn't find it anywhere else on the internet, so although this was posted two years ago, I am leaving it here for posterity. 