Using the configuration management tool Ansible, it is clumsy to restart a web server. The language lets you tell the web server to be "up", but if you specifically want it to be restarted, you have to set its state to "restarted". But there is no easy way to check if the web server has been restarted. This is a kludge in Ansible to enable one-off operations. 
Some folks prefer doing both types of jobs with one tool, and working around the rough edges. Other folks prefer having two tools to do almost the same thing, but without rough edges. To answer the question, "appropriateness" is a matter of taste. This answer explains why. 
Configuration management tools are used to get a system into a known state. Deployment tools deploy new program files and program data to a system. At the end of the day, both types of tools do some combination of:
Application deployment is a hard thing to pin down because it has a lot of sub-problems. Config management systems are excellent at modeling tasks which are convergent and work with "what is the desired state of the system". In the context of app deployment, this is great for things like deploying bits to a machine, managing configuration files, and setting up system services. What it is extremely bad for is things that are inherently procedural, notably database migrations and service restarts. I usually try to put the convergent logic in Chef and let an external procedural tool (usually Fabric in my case) handle the few remaining bits as well as sequencing the actual converges.
Configuration management tools have declarative languages which specify the state of the system. Deployment tools have imperative languages which tell the system to do things. A DevOps person needs to do both. 
Using the deployment tool Capistrano, it is clumsy to use its language to tell the system to ensure that the web server is active. You have to issue a command to restart the web server, and another to check to see if the web server is up. It is a kludge to get the web server into a known state. 