After that, start running hardware tests. Memory and Hard drive tests are a good place to start. The hard drive manufacture generally provides a basic hard drive tester. Memtest86+ is a good way to test your memory.
When I had this issue, I verified my hard drive was good and then did a disk defrag. This forced a large portion of data on my disk to be rewritten to new sectors. It seemed to help quite a bit.
This is the Windows NT 6.x shutdown process.  Notice the 15 minute grace period mentioned partway through.  ☺
Another possibility is that there is a bad windows file. To check for bad windows files, Microsoft provided a tool called the System File Checker or SFC for short. You should run this and make sure that everything is good to go.
As a last resort, I'd install a new hard drive and reinstall the OS. Sometimes, there is nothing you can do to fix the system and just have to rebuild from scratch. I have to stress that this is a last resort when all else fails and you just have to make this work again.
Does anyone have any suggestions?  I have already rolled back recent updates but it doesn't seem to have helped.  I can link the dmp files somewhere if they would be of help.
I apologize for writing a second answer, but I felt that this really didn't relate to my first answer.
I am experiencing an issue with Windows 7 Professional.  The computer experiences some issues randomly (internet connectivity, slows down, etc).  At this point I will try to shutdown the computer, which ends up taking at least 15 minutes.  The computer logs out and displays "Shutting down" for 15 minutes.  Eventually it will shutdown.  When it comes back up it displays an error message and indicates that there is a dump file.
Scan for viruses and SpyWare since these types of "HateWare" are common causes of such symptoms.  Here are some of the programs I use:
Additionally, there is a certain type of failure I've observed quite a few times with hard drives wherein they begin to slow down before they stop working.  But if you're ONLY seeing this during shutdown, then this probably isn't the problem you're experiencing.
If you have ruled out hardware related issues, a program is probably not closing properly. You generally want to prevent unused software from automatically launching on start up. This will reduce the number of potential problem software and eliminate potential sources of problems. There is a lot of software out there that launches a process on start up that will take system resources. If that program crashes or is having problems, it can impact your machine.
To clean up these startup programs, you need to clean up the "Run" section of the registry and empty out the "startup" section of the start menu. I wrote a blog post about this here. You basically want to remove anything that you don't use every day. Thinks like your AV scanner should stay but things like messenger apps and the adobe speed launcher generally don't. Also, keep an eye out for anything being launched from the C:\Users\\ folder. A ton of malware use this folder as a storage place for their exe.