Such firmware is generally used in conjunction with "disks" that are formatted and partitioned according to the GPT standards.
What I do not understand is this: People say that I should install W10 on my computer using UEFI mode but also say that the mode you install an OS and the mode you run the OS are different. What does it mean?
As far as I know, the UEFI standards do not say anything about what firmware should do when the PC has connected to it some MBR disks as well as or instead of GPT disks.
The firmware in any recent PC will be UEFI firmware. That is, the firmware will conform to the UEFI specifications.
Old PC's had firmware that duplicated the functionality of IBM's BIOS firmware initially designed in the 1980's for use with pseudo 16-bit CPUs with less than 1MB RAM and, eventually, with hard disks which were initially about 5 MB in capacity. This BIOS firmware provided functions that the early operating systems (e.g. PC-DOS, MS-DOS, DR-DOS, etc) actually used to access the hardware peripherals (screens, disks, etc). Another part of the BIOS was responsible for starting the "bootstrap" process that ends with the operating system running. Eventually, improvements in processors, hard-drives and other hardware developed beyound what the BIOS could handle. At that point operating systems stopped relying on the BIOS to communicate with hardware, instead having their own native "drivers" in software.  The BIOS firmware's primary role was then mostly to do with getting the boot process underway.
In principle you could use a UEFI compliant firmware to boot some GPT compliant removable medium that contains an installer that formats and partitions a hard disk using MBR that is subsequently booted using the UEFI firmware's BIOS-compatibility bootstrap modes.
A BIOS firmware typically expects to work with hard disks that are formatted and partitioned according to a scheme often referred to as MBR (after Master Boot record). This sort of firmware cannot understand a GPT disk.
In a comment Bob provided a link to UEFI boot: how does that actually work, then?. I recommend you read that carefully, although lengthy, it is well written and clear. 
In practise most firmware that is built on UEFI standards also implement a means of understanding MBR disks and of using the BIOS method for starting a bootstrap process. This may be disabled by default. If enabled it means the UEFI firmware may automatically add MBR disk partitions to the list of boot targets that are tried in turn when attempting to boot.