Having said all that, I'd be really concerned with migrating a production Active Directory domain onto a beta platform. Hopefully this is just a test lab that you're working with.
But now there is an issue: we would like to install SQL Server and TFS on it. And SQL Server yells at me - Warning, there might be problems when installing on a domain controller. So we decided to try the risky way - ripping the domain controller out of Windows Server Essentials.
As the installer already tells you, no, you cannot run more than one Domain Controller when the existing Domain Controller is SBS.
I am in a similar situation. We in our company have 12 developers but our BizSpark startup program offers only 7 MSDN subscriptions. This means that 5 developers won't have CALs (client access licenses) to access any Standard edition of Windows Server. As Essentials edition offers 25 user accounts without a need for CALs, we chose Essentials as a base for our very first small development environment server.
The limitation in SBS has, historically, been on having multiple Windows Server SBS machines. You can only have one. You can have as many secondary DCs as you want, however.
You will need to migrate, demoting the current domain controller (DC) to a member server and transferring the Active Directory Flexible Single-Master Operation (FSMO) roles to the new DC. Once you've done that you can re-promote the existing machine back to being a secondary DC for the domain. 
I have an existing Active Directory in house, a mix between a Win2K8R2 and Win2K3 domain, and i would like to test out Windows Server 2012 Essentials BETA on the network. When walking though the install, it gives me the option of a new domain, or migrating from an existing domain. when clicking existing, it tells me i can only have one SBS server running on a domain at a time... So, i dont have any existing SBS servers in house (both are full standard or enterprise editions) but i do plan on keeping at least one of these extra servers running... So, how do i get a 2012 Essentials server to join a domain, and not migrate the existing domain? or if i do migrate, can i still get one of the other boxes to act as secondary controllers? 
I'm not finding good documentation about this from Microsoft, but based on the error messages you're seeing in the beta product still referencing Small Business Server (SBS) I am going to answer on the basis of how the SBS product operates.