run secpol.msc->Local policies->Network access->Sharing and security model for local account. It should be set to classical.
From a different angle, when you log into your OS, are you logging into "yourlocalmachinename\yourlocalusername" or "yourdomain\yourdomainusername"? Try logging out and switching users to make sure you're in the right context.
Go to windows 7 clients' control panel-> user account -> manage your credentials-> Add a Windows credential 
Option 2 is to setup a username and pswd on the server.  This can be 1 server user for each wkstn user, 1 server user for each user security group desired: Accounting, Sales, Marketing, etc, or 1 server user for all users.  The server username & pswd may, but are not required, to match the username and pswd on the wkstns.  Don't use any blank passwords.
You can also test authentication against the server with the Net Use command.  If the authentication fails with "incorrect user name or password" then either the syntax, username, password or some combination of all 3 are wrong.
Create a batch file on each machine to map the shares as a drive letter and force authentication on the server. Place the batch file in a C:\Admin folder, place a shortcut to the batch file in the All Users Startup folder to have it run on logon, set it to run minimized.   The syntax is:
I have strong feeling that you have changed something in local security policy. May be disabled NTLM, may be changed Log on locally or Deny log on locally policies. Please check if it was changed from its previous state when all worked fine.
I have windows 2008 Server and one drive is shared on it. One day, some of my win 7 client can access shared drive but some can't . So i try to search the problem on many website and many forum. And I tried this
A Domain solves both of these issues and has many other advantages if you have more than 4-5 workstations.  This is the best solution.
We have had similar problems with our network, and usually they point to a bork in the domain controller. Restarting the server that acts as a domain controller and then flushing the DNS caches in our client machines usually does the trick. After restarting your domain controller, from the command line (in all Windows OS's), you can try (in this order):
From your answer to another post that you are using a Workgroup, the most likely problems are that the user/pswd are different or don't exist on the server, or the user/pswd is not being passed in the correct syntax.  In a Workgroup Users are local to each machine, JSmith on the server is not the same as JSmith on the workstation.