Tessellation can be used to apply a displacement map, by subdividing a surface into small polygons and applying a displacement (looked up from the map) to each vertex of the subdivided surface.  The level of subdivision you need depends in part upon how noisy/detailed the displacement map is, so adaptive tessellation can be used to subdivide more finely in the areas that have more detail, but less in the areas that are flatter, improving performance.
What's the difference between displacement mapping and height mapping and what is the connection to adaptive tessellation?
In the sphere case, for example, you can tessellate that sphere very crudely (effectively as a cube) when that sphere is very far away, but use more detail when the sphere is close.
Displacement mapping can mean (but doesn't always mean) a vector displacement at each point on the surface.  Height mapping implies only a scalar displacement value, i.e. each point gets pushed along its normal.  The term "displacement mapping" can also be used for scalar displacements, though, so when vector displacements are discussed, people often explicitly say "vector displacement mapping".
Often you will see techniques like displacement mapping discussed in conjunction with tessellation because the tessellation will affect how you want to map the elevation map to the geometry to perform the displacement (or which resolution of the elevation map you want to select, et cetera). 
The technique is not directly tied to adaptive tessellation, which is itself about controlling the breakdown of a mathematical description of a mesh (such as a sphere) into the concrete collection of triangles that will be used to render that mesh. The "adaptive" bit means that the tessellation detail will change based on some input criteria, such as view distance.
Displacement mapping is a technique for adding surface detail, like bump mapping. Unlike bump mapping, however, displacement mapping is about actually deforming the geometry based on some input height map (essentially a grid of elevation values). 
"Displacement mapping" is basically another, more technically accurate, term for what is colloquially known as "height mapping" (strictly speaking, "height mapping" probably should refer to the process of generating the grid of elevation data from some source material, such as a 3D scanner, that will be used in a displacement mapping implementation -- but in practice most people just use the terms interchangeably, if they even say "displacement mapping" at all).