Unlike Remi's repository in the accepted answer, the Webtatic EL6 repository never uses the same package names as CentOS base repositories, so will not override installation/upgrade of packages you don't intend to switch to, and as such is enabled by default.
You should then only see the packages you've set to be removed and installed in the list, and you can confirm the installation to switch over. Any services currently running with php loaded will need to be restarted, for instance httpd or php-fpm.
Don't say "y" to the results, but take note of all packages mentioned in "Removing for dependencies", e.g.
As for this being 'seamless', any software changes happening while users are able to access the website should have the consequences fully understood. Shared libraries being removed and added when a process hasn't already loaded them could potentially load while the shared library isn't there. It's better to do software upgrades like this offline, and preferably tested on a non-production machine first to verify the process works as expected.
2 . You need to first see what existing installed packages need replacing, you can do this by using yum shell to combine removing php-common and installing php54w-common in one transaction (so shared dependencies aren't removed)
3 . To switch to a hypothetical CentOS base php54 package (CentOS 5 used php53 prefix), you just run the above steps replacing php removal with php54w removal, and php54w installation with php54 installation e.g.
4 . Any PHP upgrade may introduce bugs, and websites should be retested. This is not specific to Webtatic, but the general idea that new features introduce new bugs.
For the rest of the installation (still in yum shell), you just remove these packages and install their php54w-* counterparts:
If there are other packages than php* in this list then you can't seamlessly switch to Webtatic PHP 5.4, but will have to investigate alternatives. Webtatic has replacement packages for all base php packages (see the packages listed on the page linked to in 1. for confirmation), so there should be no issues, unless you use other 3rd party repositories that have packages installed dependent on the specific php version installed.
However as for the switch to the hypothetical base php54, there will likely be no alternatives for some packages (e.g. there was no php53-pecl-memcache extension in CentOS 5) and Webtatic has packages that aren't available in CentOS base (e.g. php54w-pecl-zendopcache). If they are missing, then you usually don't have any other option than to use pecl directly to install them.
you can do a "rpm -qa | grep php" to see all your current php packages and a "rpm -e" to remove. i don't know your current modules, but it's worth testing before the upgrade.