If what you want to know to what layer or what protocol is used for something, you can battle the IANA long listings or use the Wikipedia simplified list of protocols.
Your best bet is to run a trace-route along the path. Sometimes the names the telcos give the hops can tell you what kind of link it is, and from there sufficient googling can sometimes give you what kind of media path it is likely to be along that segment.
That means that application protocols like FTP, HTTP and so on are not really recognized by the link layer, the link layer is only concerned about MAC addresses and talking to the Network and Physical Layers.
Keep in mind that media translation hides all of this. In one memorable troubleshooting case of mine a decade ago, one Ethernet segment was translated 3 times between hops (Router -> Fibre -> twisted-pair -> thick-net -> twisted-pair -> distribution switch) which was invisible when looking at packets; the only clue that this was going on was in inter-packet latencies and round-trip-times, and even then it took consulting the network documentation to figure out exactly what's going on. This gets even worse when talking about Internet communication.
Beyond that, knowing whether your bits are moving over an ATM, SONET, DOCSIS, DWDM, etc network is interesting trivia, but not very relevant.
There is no definitive way to trace the media used along a TCP/IP transmission path, the protocol was specifically designed to abstract that way from higher level protocols. Sometimes hints can be gleaned by examining things like the MTU size, as certain transmission media use slightly different MTUs, but fancier routers will reassemble packets to hide even that much information. 
There is no obvious and reliable way to determine the underlying transport used to connect you to a webpage. Sometimes a traceroute will give you hints... for example, when I traceroute to Google, I see:
The protocols you are talking about are application protocols, and are handled on the Application layer, the contents of this layer are encapsulated and passed to the layer right after it (Presentation), and so on. So each layer only needs to know what format are the layers directly related to it.