Problem: People like playing with friends. If you assign everything automatically this won't be possile. You could let them say, who they want to play with, but that really depends on the type of game.
Team Auto-balance: A good way to balance the teams is making players change teams mid-game. This would need to be handled with care, as it would be very annoying for a player to keep changing teams, only to end up losing because in the last match they were moved to the losing team, but they are the player with the best score. (not true in continuous games)
Team-up: Don't forget that when you have a game with multiple teams, the teams consist of actual humans, which means if there are 5 teams in the game, and one team is dominating everyone else, most likely all other teams will start attacking that one team, to bring balance. Yes, this is up to the players, and not really in your control, but isn't that true for most multiplayer games anyway?
If there are (n/2)+1 players, where n is the max size of a game, create a new one. If the number of players drops below n/2 in two matches merge them.
Weak players have different skills: What I like in agar.io is also that when you become strong, you start moving slower, and new players move fast. Although most likely the strong player can get them, the new players have a chance to avoid being killed, so they don't feel that underpowered. So a nice idea would be "weak players have skills focused on escaping, and as they grown stronger, they focus on being more powerful".
Possibloe solution: merge the games slowly. Show the Players from the other game ghostelike for 10-20 seconds. Maybe with a warning on the screen, that the games get merged. So everyone can see the other players for a moment, before they get merged in and shot directly.
How does your game handling spawning of new players? This maybe could also done this way. So there would be no difference in new players joining, or merging two matches.
The losing team will get a bonus - e.g. an airship that could (if used correctly) give the losing team the advantage to even out with the opponents.