On the domain controller, Event ID 680 of type “Failure Audit” would appear 4 times under the “Security” group in Event Viewer:
As a test, I tried logging on to my box as a different login and browsing the “bad” UNC path.  Strangely, my “ourdomain\myaccount” account was getting locked out – not the one I was logged in as!  I was totally confused as to why the credentials for the other login were being passed.
When I hit “Cancel” in response to the user name/password prompt, the following message box would display:
If you take a network trace of the same client connecting to another drive on a server with IIS installed, you'll see it make two (er three - see SMB) connection attempts, more or less simultaneously:
So, every time I tried to browse to the “bad” drive letter, behind the scenes XP was trying to login 8 times using bad credentials (or, at least a bad password as the login was correct), causing my account to get locked out on the 4th try.  Interestingly, If I tried browsing to a “good” drive such as “c$” it would work fine.
Because you had a WebDAV redirector hooked up - I forget what that looks like for XP, but I suspect you can un-bind it from the Bindings interface for a network adapter (possibly in the advanced view).
After much Googling, I found a link referring to some IIS settings I was vaguely familiar with from the past but could not see how they would affect this issue.  It was related to the IIS directory security setting “Anonymous access and authentication control” located under:
I found no indication while scouring the Internet that this property was related to my UNC problem.  But, I did notice that this property was set to my domain user name and password.  And, my password did age recently but I had not reset the password accordingly for this property.  Sure enough, keying in the new password corrected the problem.  I was no longer prompted for a user name/password when browsing the UNC path and the account lock-outs ceased.
Strangely, every time I tried to browse to the UNC path I would be prompted for a user name and password, the above errors would be written to the log, and my account would be locked out.
my account would get locked out.  I would also get the following warning (Event ID 100, Type “Warning”) 5 times under the “System” group in Event Viewer on my box:
I checked with others in the group using XP and they only got the above message box when browsing to a “bad” drive letter on their box.  No one else was prompted for a user name/password and then locked out.
So when you connected to your local machine with a DAV-enabled redirector, you triggered discovery of the IIS instance, and that probably triggered the account lockout (for the reasons you gave). Your IIS logs can be used to confirm/deny that.
Windows cannot find \mymachine\x$.  Check the spelling and try again, or try searching for the item by clicking the Start button and then clicking Search.
Control Panel/Administrative Tools/Computer Management/Services and Applications/Internet Information Services/Web Sites/Default Web Site/Properties/Directory Security/Anonymous access and authentication control/Edit/Password