On top of what has been noted above, Intel is starting to swing the other way and build more in by providing out of band access to the hardware via Active Management Technology built into the bios and motherboard which can be controlled independently of the OS. With these boards you can actually do a fair bit. Whether you consider it inbuilt or a second OS is another thing but as it has hardware on board and components in the bios, i'm sticking with inbuilt.
The BIOS provides a number of services to the Operating Systems, most of which are related to power management:
Modern OSs use the BIOS mainly for loading only, but there are still some uses for it which include, most notably:
The second is System Management Mode, which is a hidden section of memory (SMRAM) that is accessed by a high-priority interrupt (SMM). Many BIOS use this to implement high-security OEM features or to implement hardware work arounds.
Suspend-to-disk is implemented in the OS most of the time as the OS can restore its state faster (only the kernel state is reloaded, and program state swapped in when required, which is significantly faster than reloading the entire RAM), but the feature remains in the specification.
There are three primary areas where an OS uses the BIOS in modern systems, such as those using the UEFI standard. The first is a series of services known as the UEFI runtime services. These services allow the OS to grab information that only the BIOS knows, such as the time that the BIOS was using, the boot order, the current user security profile, the information about the motherboard, DIMMs, etc.
The interface for the OS for all BIOS services is a piece of virtual machine code that needs to be run on an emulator, and which generates the necessary I/O operations into the hardware. For suspend, this is generally implemented so that executing one of the hardware writes then triggers an interrupt, which transfers control to the BIOS.
The third is ACPI. ACPI provides configuration, power management and hardware data and code used by the OS to augment what the OS drivers can find out using an industry standard or device driver. For example, is there a special signal to control the hard drive power, or is there a special way to talk to the battery that isn't covered by a standard.
Suspend-to-RAM can not be implemented by the OS, as it relies on the BIOS skipping the RAM initialization and test, so the OS needs an API to tell the BIOS that it intends to be resumed with the current RAM contents. In order to provide this service, the BIOS asks the OS to leave a certain RAM area intact.