I'm not an iptables expert so won't try to give you the full details about how to configure it in case I get it wrong but there is a wealth of information only a google click away and as your rules will be quite simple, it should not be too complicated to set up 
You are correct that " that's the way you get an actual phone to connect with the Asterisk server". Phones register to the server on the same port that's used to register with the provider.
If you NEED to allow SIP connections from arbitrary outside addresses setting up Fail2Ban is probably your best solution, in conjunction with LONG SIP Secrets (10-11 character minimum).  Assuming you set up all the devices that connect to your server legitimate users will never need to type their SIP secret.  
A note on general security, Asterisk is pretty well known for having security holes & lurking bugs - This Guy has made a bit of an avocation out of finding new and interesting breakage in Asterisk.
Are you allowing anonymous sip calls or are you registering to a server that transfers the user looking for their unlock code?
If you're allowing inbound anonymous sip cconnections you're at more difficult position. You obviously can't restrict SIP connections by IP. Make sure any registrations you do have have complex passwords and create a blackhole path that dumps any call that doesn't match your application's URI. Fail2Ban like you already have setup is also the best answer I've come across for limiting the attacks.
In addition to the steps above to protect Asterisk from being exploited I would suggest isolating the VOIP box as much as possible (on its own subnet, in its own VLAN) to protect the rest of your infrastructure in the event someone does find a way in and tries to do something nasty.
If you're asterisk server is registering to a SIP service then you can isolate your SIP ports to only allow inbound connections from your SIP register as long as they stay in the middle. In response to your concern about keeping the system a usable web server, you can still keep port 80 open for all inbound connections.
You can use the iptables firewall to block ALL inbound connections except SIP from the IP that your trunk provider uses.
Otherwise as others have suggested you really want to lock down access to the VOIP server as much as possible -- Restrict incoming SIP connections to the minimum set of addresses that need to connect, and possibly force remote users to come through a VPN in order to access the SIP server (if it doesn't kill your audio quality).
If you are only using SIP to talk to the provider, then simply set-up a firewall to only allow SIP from the provider.