I would say that it would probably be ok to use the first power supply for the second. It really depends on what the hardware is like if the second laptop will like this or not, but as the manufacturer put the same plug on them it would seem to be OK. This is similar to how Dell, for example, has a 45 watt and a 90 watt power supply for different machines. I have used the 45 watt with the laptop that came with the 90 watt and vice versa and the only difference I have seen is battery charging time. Your mileage may vary however.
Remember that the power supply has to meet the maximum possible power consumption of the laptop.  e.g. burning a DVD whilst simultaneously running CPU at max, connecting to a wireless network, and thrashing the hard disc.  In "normal" usage, you'll be drawing much less than 8A.
The most direct way to work out whether your laptop PSUs are regulated or not is if you can get a volt meter and check the voltage directly from the plug: if it's the rated 15.6V, then they're regulated power supplies and the above comments apply: so long as the power rating is high enough, you can substitute.  If you find that the output voltage is a few volts higher than you expected, then the supply is unregulated, and will drive lower-power equipment at a higher-than-specified voltage, which may cause it damage.  For example, I have an unregulated 9V "wall wart" power supply for a 'phone, which from its plug (the one that goes into the 'phone) appears to generate 12V.
Basic rule of thumb for power supplies: The voltage has to be right; the amperage just has to be high enough.  Your laptop will draw differing amounts of power depending on what it is doing.
I really wouldn't try to swap them around, clearly one machine is capable of drawing more than the other and if you get it wrong then the PSU will go pop and potentially be dangerous too.
That said, much equipment supplied with an unregulated PSU will have internal regulation circuitry, so you may be ok anyway.
Not quite so simple as presented above: there's a critical difference between regulated and unregulated power supplies.  Unregulated ones only hit their target output voltage at their rated load, and will generate a higher than desired voltage at lower loads.  A regulated power supply will always generate the expected output voltage.