Ideally the communication should be encrypted using some form of pre-shared secret but of course the very sharing of that secret presents problems. PGP/GPG is a great solution to the problem. This used to be quite common practice but as far as I can tell is not used much these days, although I can't understand why not. Last time I checked GPG was freely available for all major platforms.
So what's a sysadmin to do?  I have to get passwords to people somehow, or noone will ever be able to log in.
Another option I do sometimes is taking a picture of a written password, can use MMS or anything else.  It isn't as easy to "detect" in case of rootkits/malware you may be trying to avoid.
So for some time I've done as you do.  I require a GSM phone number for each validated new password (or change) request, and I SMS the password to that number; username, system addresses etc. all go through email from the ticketing system they've used to log the request.  The only wrinkle I've added is to pre-expire the password, which requires it to be changed on first login.  On Linux, I do this with chage -d 0 username after setting the password, and on Solaris with passwd -f username.
This means that the token isn't infinitely reusable if it's disclosed; a black hat coming across the discarded text message will only know what the password used to be.  It also means that if someone else gets it first, I'll find out about it, because the legitimate user won't be able to log in after the black hat has got there and changed it first.
I think you might be surprised at just how common this practice is and realistically it's quite acceptable for a lot of cases. However, as you obviously already suspect, it's far from ideal.
When I need to send a password to someone, I usually send all the info except the password (i.e. server and user) through a certain channel (email, IM, etc.) and the password itself (with no explanation of what it's for) by text message.
It's still not perfect, and there are still ways it can fail, but I have yet to find anything better.  Anyone?
I have to issue a lot of passwords to people in other countries.  I don't know them; I have no means of contacting them face-to-face; I can't engage a courier to hand-deliver a password each time; and the delays of postal mail (which also is by no means a guaranteed person-to-person service) are considered business-unacceptable.
Might want to consider some form of 2-factor auth.  The identity validation replies earlier totally make sense and are valid concerns.