There most likely were logs in event viewer that indicated IP conflicts.  Any monitoring system that gathers and filters event logs should be able to detect that and trigger alerts.
Regardless of context, there is no way to prevent people from being stupid with IP addresses unless the software goes out of its way to forbid it -- and it generally can't. How does it know you don't need multiple VMs to hold those addresses, and will only ever online one of them at a time? It's not the software's job to police this. It's the admin's job to value their job enough to not create an outage by creating an IP conflict.
I agree with the comments that the tech creating these clones needs some re-education. Maybe some push back on your part, especially if the test servers are on the same network as production servers.
In the mean time, this might help you to identify VM guests with duplicate IPs already in your environment. You will need PowerCli, and keep in mind that cluster members use the same IP by design.
On physical managed switches you could probably detect and warn about the duplicate MAC address - I am not familiar enough with vmware virtual switches to know what options you might have there.
This is where you can specify a name, change network settings, specify domain membership and generate a new SID (for Microsoft operating systems). That's all you need to do going forward.
When you clone a virtual machine in a vSphere environment, you have an option to "customize guest" when cloning or deploying VMs from a template...
(I get what you're trying to do. I really do, and I respect it. But there is no true solution other than fear on the part of those who wish to keep their jobs.)
This is one of those lessons that admins have to learn, either the hard way or the inevitable 3AM panics that happen when other people are learning the hard way.
Of course the real solution is proper training for everyone involved in cloning to make sure it doesnt happen in the first place - cloning a VM needs to be done very carefully, changing the IP or moving to an isolated network to avoid this exact situation.  
tl;dr, no one is ever smarter than the IPAM. Assigning an IP address or cloning a device is a religious function that must be accompanied by the IPAM's blessing. Belief in heathenly practices designed to prevent or mitigate IP conflicts will only result in ordained ruin. Ignore its divine guidance at your own peril.