In addition to this, remember that employees are human - unless you're working somewhere that clearly and obviously requires draconian security polices then going over the top will alienate the staff and harm productivity - remember you're not securing the system because securing the system is good fun, you're doing it to protect the business. Part of protecting the business includes not annoying and disrupting employees for no good purpose.
Make sure printers and photocopiers are appropriately secured - people leave all kinds of documents sitting by the printer. And printers and photocopiers sometimes retain a copy of the last printed document in their memory...
Configuration lock-down and management is a good start, but how does information legitimately arrive at and leave the business? Can these workflows be abused?
What is the critical information that your company holds? If it's patented or a trade secret, then a competitor can't use it (legally, AFIAK, IANAL, etc.) If it's your employee's experience and skills, tough - you don't own that, unless it's someone so high-value that you really do have a binding contract with them for a certain period of time. If it's something proprietary (from my own experience, a large database of contractors that a service company trusted to do work nationwide) - well, that's tougher. Technically, don't expose the whole database; but someone who's committed to the project could collect the most important info over time and slowly abscond with it.
You need to consider sophisticated email filtering if you want to go down that road. Rather than just assuming that any files over a certain size are to be blocked as bad, you need the sorts of email filtering that are available that scan content for keywords and patterns you define and take actions based on that.
The things you listed are decent, if you really have such critical info. From the technical side, log everything as well - you can't block EVERYTHING. Item 3 is kind of silly though - just set appropriate ACLs on shared resources (files, websites/SharePoint, etc).
If you don't want people in one department talking about confidential business to people in another department then again, this needs to be made clear to them. Again, there is little point in locking down the network if someone can just buy a friend lunch and ask them about it.
In the first case are we talking about malicious activity/corporate espionage? Or stupidity/negligence? (both are real issues). 
If you're blocking up all the USB ports then how does the mouse work? These are usually USB these days after all. If you leave one port for that a determined thief could unplug the mouse and plug in a USB drive. So perhaps you need to consider software based blocking that prohibits the installation of certain classes of device.
From a non-technical perspective - you can have non-compete agreements. As you say, you can take an employee to court. This is also a deterrent, not just a remedy - remember that.
Lastly, in terms of the "setting policy" points, remember that IT Security does not exist in a vacuum. There is little point in locking down the network if physical security is lax. Why would someone need to break into the network if they can just walk into an office and pick up the data in a nice little printout, hide it inside their lunchbox and walk out? 
There's a lot more things you can say about this subject but these might give you some interesting thoughts. It's a subject that you can write a book about (indeed several people have).
Separating sensitive offices VLANs (if not totally physically separate networks) is good standard practice. Be aware that this will increase support costs and may be prone to breaches due to human error on the part of the support technicians who do the wiring.
You can also run your business in such a way that your employees feel valued and would be less likely to engage in such actions. That may or may not be at odds with running the place like it's on lockdown and no one is to be trusted with any info.
The short answer is you can't and you have to be able to trust your users.  All you can do is limit what information someone has access to based on their trust level.  If they need it for their job, but you don't trust them to have it, then you have the wrong person in that position.  Most the critical data isn't going to be large but things like financial numbers, customer credit card numbers, and such.  For example, we only have credit card numbers go one way into the system and are never displayed to any user or even back to the customer.  Financial reports are audited and reviewed to see who is running them and from where.
In either case, start with making a note of what information sharing is needed to get the job done (remember the IT tail should never wag the business dog) and a workplace HR policy that spells out that this is all that is allowed and that infractions are disciplinary matters. 
One thing I would certainly do is ensure that data wasn't stored locally on workstations and laptops but rather saved onto central severs. These should be easier to secure both physically and electronically. Consider storing documents in document management systems that enable you to track access and changes made. This can also allow for IRM to control who can do what to a document. These systems aren't foolproof but can  help.