Once you figure out your problem, you might want to enable jumbo frames on your hosts in order to get even better throughput when you're making bulk data transfers, provided you have a reasonably-modern switch.
When using ethtool -s to manually set the "Port" to MII on the main server, it looses all connectivity and does not show "Speed" or "Duplex".
Next I'd look at the cards - are they the same make and model? are they configured the same? Try swapping one from a fast server to the slow server. You might have a bad card, or out dated/poor drivers for one of the cards.
The only difference between all the server/networking cards is the "Port" which ethtool shows. On the two backup servers the "Port" is shown as MII yet on the other it's shown as "Twisted Pair". 
I've been running some tests with iperf the linux tools and checking the hardware with ethtool. I have 3 servers and when doing my checks/test I discovered that the two backup servers can access each other at around 450 Mb/s but when using either one of them to connect and test the main server, I only get the 90Mb/s even though ethtool shows the networking card running at 1000/Full. 
Anyway, Am i doing something wrong? Is there a specific reason my main server cannot use Gb when there appears to be no difference except the "Port"? 
Does ifconfig eth0 show any errors on either host?  From your reports, it seems as if either the CPU is overloaded on one of the two iperf machines, or the switch (please tell me it's not multiple switches) between them is overloaded, or you have a 100Mbit constriction somewhere between your hosts.  I've found people cascaded off of a small 100Mbit switch one too many times, so it's good to know where your cable runs start and finish.  Are you using a smart switch?  Does it show that your ports are active at gigabit speeds?
As @Luis pointed out, 'b' = bit, and 'B' = byte.  iperf helps us out by reporting times in Mbits/sec:
I've just started looking into the network speeds at my office, the entire network is setup to be "Gigabit". This includes Gb switches, Gb Network cards and Cat 5e cabling.
Let's start with the simplest test - swap out the patch cable attaching the slow server with one of the ones on a fast server.
I'm going to suspect the MTU on the main server's switch port and its network card. Can you see if you have errors?
Mine are running as Port: Twisted Pair, and I get around 110MB/s. This was measured against a SAN, and using 4 cables I got around 450MB/s. Your 450Mb/s got me confused for a bit :)
The next thing that I would look at is the configuration on the switch port. Make sure that it's the same on the slow server's port as it is on the fast. I'd also switch the slow server to a fast servers port and test, as it might be a bad port.