The easiest and portable way of protecting a file from accidental modification is to put it into a zip file. Almost all OS spports read from zip. In windows while accessing the data from a zip file they are copied to a temporary folder.  So the changes are not saved. A good third party zip manager ask for user conformation before saving the changes to a zip file.
If you dont want to show your presentation or give security to certain folders then I suggest you to download a folder locker and keep your files in that.
you can simply make it as read only but anyone can easily change the permission of files or folders so In my opinion download a folder locker or set a password for your presentation. 
one you can find here. or you can try others. It will only lock the files which you keep in it other space is free to use for anyone.
I would suggest exporting the presentation as a PDF document and using the Acrobat Pro features to digitally sign the document, turning on the modification protection as part of that. This will prevent someone from modifying the presentation, however they could just attempt to reproduce the master from scratch on a blank presentation by copying and pasting all the content.
The first case is much more difficult, and actually there is very little to do about it. Giving a USB pen to someone is much like giving them a paper sheet with pencil writing on it. There is no way you can prevent your user from erasing some part of your sheet and writing again on it, no matter what you write in it (in this metaphor there is no equivalent of the pen; everything that you write on a USB pen is erasable and re-writable; if you want to have a pen equivalent, you have to write on a CD-ROM).
In the second case, setting the read-only flag in the file properties should be enough. When the user will open your file, the program will tell him that the file is read-only and they cannot save it. If the user is honest, he will not do anything.
Answers to questions like this depend on the so-called "attack model" that you want to be protected from. In other words, will the user actively try to overcome your protection? Or is the protection there just to warn the user, which you trust to be honest with respect to the read-only setting and not try to overcome it?
There is a partial workaround that may or may not be applicable to your case: you can add a digital signature to the file you want to protect. The user is still able to modify the file, but thanks to the digital signature this leaves evidence that the file was modified. However this is a very broad topic, which has in turn other caveats, and it would be off-topic to discuss it here.
In this metaphor, setting the read-only flag is no different from writing (in pencil): "Please, do not erase of modify things here". If the user is honest, they do not do it. But there is no technical mean that prevents them from doing that if they are not honest.