One thing I haven't seen mentioned so far is that Such a system isn't just for ingress filtering, but also egress: having a box dedicated to ensuring what leaves your network is at least vaguely legitimate is something you probably want to consider at some stage.
A router removes that issue to a point (until, of course, the router/firewall is compromised.... turtles all the way). 
Either solution (router or firewall) may provide other functionality, not necessarily 'purely' security related, that still makes your service more resilient (a means of doing load-balancing, packet inspection, null-routing, etc). 
In general you are right, there is not much additional benefit in the sense of security to adding a dedicated router/firewall between the internet and your primary server(s). There's still a small benefit in using a dedicated hardware appliance in contrast to a general-purpose computer. All Linux/Unix distributions can basically do the same on one machine. And we still have a service separation in that the firewall is in the kernel while the application is usually in userspace. 
Think about this: the bad guys will always find a way in if they are determined enough. Putting in layers of security will make their job more difficult, and you can make it difficult enough that you discourage all but the most determined. You have to weigh the risks with the resources that you are willing to put into securing your network. If you don't have much to lose, then it may not make much sense to spend a lot of time and money protecting it, but we are seeing more companies get into financial and legal trouble from data breaches (customers and governments are suing and even leveling criminal charges for data breaches).
An external firewall helps protect the rest of your network, too, and it can provide secure connectivity for other devices. A firewall can have many rules, and dedicate its computing resources to protect your whole network, rather than burdening your server's processing, freeing your server to perform it's main processing task. There are also next generation firewalls which can look deeper into the traffic to recognize application-layer protocols, traffic patterns, malware, attacks, etc., and it helps to have a dedicated box for that. Intrusion detection and prevention are hot topics today.
The question then becomes maintainability. Which IP addresses and TCP ports do you allow through to your network and where to (in case of multiple hosts). 
No.  Router ACL's can turn off / disable unnecessary types of traffic to the point of protocol and port number.  The application / server is the more important element to focus on.  Also remember that security also includes availability of a resource (see DDOS attacks).
It's true that some people do what you suggest, but security should be layered. Under typical circumstances, you will probably have more ports open on your server since you will want to be able to connect to the server to maintain it.
For small networks or single hosts it is perfectly sufficient to have a iptables/pfSense firewall on the host, for larger networks there are many different small benefits, that make the use of a central firewall/router useful.
Also a dedicated firewall/router/appliance may help you in capturing traffic that is coming into and out of your network as a central point of capture.
Currently, if Server1 is compromised, you may not be able to find out what left the network, or to where. 
There's multiple answers. None of which I personally consider critical, but they make sense in their entirety and especially when considering costs and benefits.