The article Best Free Video Conference Software Review grades video and voice conferencing software for audio and video. It gives the following grades for audio :
I dont know if there is already a software solution to test it, but it wolud be great to have some solution. This solution would be a software that generates a specific (and fixed) bandwidth signals, with all components on the same level on the transmiter side; and a frequency component reader on the reception side. The aplication compares the diferences between transmited and received signals and give you a "benchmark note" to the link (and consequently to the voip solution software used). My recomendation is (if you dont find any specific software that does that) is use Matlab to generate a linear audio source, transmit it over the voip link channel, receive and analyze it on the frequency domain. This would be a start to a benchmark software.
You would need an accurate sound sample conveying a wide range of possible sounds in different frequencies and with different types of stops (consonant sounds), and you'd need a system that has a very good sound card electronically isolated from the rest of the system to prevent sample contamination. You would need very high quality, reference tuned inputs and outputs (microphones and speakers) and then a recording device that can compare the resulting sound output to the reference input and highlight any differences.
The cheap way to do this is to use the same computer and the same people to rehearse a set selection of dialog and rate it subjectively on clarity and comprehension.
If these factors are not a consideration (IE, each person involved has good quality hardware, stable connection, etc) then your best bet would be Skype.
This would be difficult to benchmark without sophisticated audio equipment. Most consumer level equipment, from the speakers to the headphones to the microphones, are very low quality, providing only enough data to basically transmit recognizable human speach.
The quality of each program will depend on the connection of each person involved in the conversation, as well as the available hardware - not limited to, but including:
I think the best strategy to do this would be able using the same technique used to test telephony links. Here you have both conversation sides, called A (the caller) and B (the called one). The technique consists on inject on A side a wide and linear range of acceptable frequencies (for example from 3k to 15kHz) and analyze how this range of frequencies are heard on B side (on telephony and data links this are made by network analyzers). The best link would give exactly the same wide and linear levels of transmitted signal on B side (this is theorical, on phisical links you will never get this enviroment). 