I am currently looking for a new TV screen since my current one is over 15 years old (about time, I guess).
You are obviously getting a lot better resolution with the PC monitor, but if all you are doing is watching 720p TV content, get a TV. 
After you get into the higher resolutions, it seems to turn the other way around (monitors have a much bigger gain in price than televisions it seems). Although with the lower sizes you're talking about it's fine.
Oh, and if you do decide to go the PC monitor route, make sure it supports HDCP, otherwise you might not be able to watch TV or Blu-Rays at full resolution
The main reason I am asking this question is because I notice that computer screens are considerably cheaper than TV-screens and to me, it seems the payoff is that you can simply buy bigger TVs. In my personal case, 24" or perhaps 30" would be enough.
What I'm wondering: is it possible to hook up a computer flatscreen to a HDD recorder? I can imagine connecting it to a HTPC should be no problem at all (obviously). 
Most newer Computer LCDs will have the hookups you need for connecting your HDD recorder.  I've seen ones with S-Video, and with component inputs or RCA cable ports, just check the specs. 
The only reason against it is that it is really not friendly to group viewing, which is where the large screens of the TV shine.  Many monitors, especially badly-built LCDs, will have bad viewing angles, as they are built to have one person look at them directly.  TVs on the other hand are viewable from basically any angle you can see the screen from, and that helps when you have 2-3 people watching the same screen.
So, are there any good reasons to use a monitor screen as your primary TV screen and are there also good reasons not do it?
For a number of years in college, I used one of my monitors as a primary screen, including TV.  The only issue is that you have to dedicate some resources to a TV tuner in your system.  At the time, tuners were a little buggy and had annoying software.  
You should also be careful about screens which are very large, as they sometimes require special drivers, video cards, or multiple monitor hookups in order to function.  Once you get near 30" at high resolution you begin to have to worry about this. 
I am seriously considering upgrading to a HTPC in the future (I am using a HDD recorder right now) mainly because of the improved flexibility and interface.