What type of disk? If it's like an IronKey, where the drive renders itself unreadable after a number of failed attempts, you can just enter an incorrect password enough times to trigger the self-destruct mechanism.
IMHO there's no need for a Linux disk or similar. If you can see the Exe on the USB stick, the USB stick has already been mounted.
There's a few possible ways to get rid of the data — one of them is to just remove the partition with gparted, and create a new empty one. Note, that theoretically it is still possible to restore the data, in this case you can use something like dd utility, but you have to mention specifically if that's the case.
As @jehad mentioned, use gparted utility. It is an open-source utility for disk managment, supporting a bunch of file systems.
If it's just a standard encrypted drive, one where you chose the encryption password and no other password will unlock it, no problem. If you don't know the password, they don't know it either - so the data on it is secure even if you do turn it in.
If it has multiple passwords (e.g. like my work computer, where more than one user has a password that will unlock the full-disk encryption), in that case (and in that case ONLY) should you consider physically destroying the drive.
You didn't mention what OS are you using — for most of them you can get it with package manager. Otherwise, you can download Live CD, burn it to a disk, and boot from it.
You can explain the situation, refuse to give the disk back, and accept to assume the replacement cost, if any.
How this goes depends a lot on the type of relation you maintain with the company and the type of personnel you are dealing with for this.
Since it is a matter of personal data, you don't need to go into any detail. Simply state you have some personal information on the disk, and therefore are not able to give the disk back.
Due to the nature of Flash memory, some data may remain on the disk, but if I understood you correctly, the data was encrypted anyway, so there should not be something that can be recovered.