On Dell Latitude XT2 Tablet PCs at my work The Dell Wifi had like 6 components that had to be installed for it, it's ridiculous.  But our 2 XT's with Intel Wifi only require 1 component. Maybe you're missing something like this.
Therefore you can't get connected to the internet. Try to reset your modem/router that does DHCP on your network. 
If that doesn't work, look up the DHCP settings in your router/modem and check them. If you can't figure it out just copy them here so we can take a look.
If you haven't tried the driver from the OEM install or the manufacturer's website then I'd do that as well instead of using the W7 default driver for it. Try the Vista driver if none for 7.
Your computer can't contact/find a DHCP server on your network, and is not able to get a ip-address configuration.
Try picking a random unused address in the DHCP range, and set it manually on your laptop (with the correct subnet mask, and gateway) and see if that resolves the problem. If it does, it would suggest a problem with the DHCP server, and not a general connectivity problem.
Try ipconfig /release , then do an ipconfig /renew .  I say this because there have been times where just 'renew' didn't cut it for some odd reason and I had to release first.
It shouldn't be an issue if you're showing as connected but, have you tried checking your router to see if MAC filtering is turned on, it would explain why two existing machines work, but a new one won't.
The IP address you're picking up is a random one generated by Windows if it can't get an address from DHCP. That would indicate to me either a problem with the router DHCP service, or a connectivity problem.
Like others have suggested try setting it to static values to see if that works at all & definitely make sure MAC filtering isn't on.  Make sure you have enough addresses in your DHCP pool as well. 
I'm not sure if Tomato firmware lets u do this but reserve an IP for your laptop's MAC on the Router so it will go into the list of knowns & maybe magically get an IP.
I personally would go ahead and right away answer the question of whether or not the wired connection is able to get an IP from this DHCP server at all to immediately rule out any general network/OS issues and narrow it down to just the wireless adapter.  Also make sure you're able to get an IP on a different wifi network to truly determine whether it's the AP or the laptop itself.  At least then you'd know where not to look most likely.