A generic college is going to teach you little to nothing about making games, however it'll teach you all the "boring" parts that you'll need to be good at making games, this means math, operating systems, databases, low level programming, algorithms, software engineering, amontst others. The way i treat my college is, i'll take a bit from every part of the industry, but i'll devote my free time to what i think is going to make me good at what i love, which is making games. You should be a part of an open source project, or working on your own projects. For me, college is just an extra 4 years of alot of free time to do my own research. A degree doesn't hurt, but i rarely hear a story where a degree makes or breaks the deal, you usualy take tests and do interviews, there are dropouts in the industry that are great coders and designers, but this shouldn't be an excuse to anybody. The game industry takes a specific kind of a person and people who do recruiting know it.
Even if games is all you'll ever want to make, get a real education. What you study doesn't matter at all. Don't take comp sci if it isn't what you really want. You can study anything at all and get into games, as long as you have the drive to make games. In fact, having a medical, social psychology, history, philosophy or just about any unrelated degree combined with experience in programming might give you a better base for making games than your generic "game industry" school.
If you're ever unsure, look at job offers on gamasutra and other sites. There's plenty of different jobs that require different skills.
And to top this off, let's say you do end up making games, and find yourself in a situation not too uncommon, that it's not all that you expected it to be. Finding a "real job" with a "game" degree is bound to be more difficult than getting a "game" job using a "real degree".
All that stuff is priceless. Can you get a games programming job without it? Certainly - almost anything's possible. But you will have stacked the odds against you.
This so much depends on so many things that there simply can't be a definite answer. Some communities value college more than others, and college costs more in some places than others.
Take this with a grain of salt, i'm nobody to be saying this like it's a fact. Also, i don't understand what do you mean by sources, try looking at job offers, see what they want.