As for the original question about a memory test, if the computer will POST (i.e. make it past the Power On Self-Test and attempt to boot) then Memtest86 is designed specifically to test your RAM.  It tests the first 64KB of RAM, loads itself into that RAM, then test the rest of your system memory as thoroughly as you'd like.  "Flakey" memory (as opposed to just plain bad memory) is uncommon, but I have seen Memtest86 catch a intermittently bad bit that the computer's memory test missed (after all, the POST memory test is meant to complete in a reasonable length of time, while memtest86's fastest test runs 5-10 minutes, with more comprehensive tests taking hours.)
On such a laptop, having the mainboard re-flowed to rectify the cold solder joints is almost certainly cost prohibitive.
You would need at least on chip cache for registers (essentially a very small amount of on-chip RAM) so that the CPU execution unit could function. So even your CPU has 'RAM'.
When booting and going inside the BIOS, change the option "Quick Power-on self test" to off, and it shall do a complete check pass on your RAM.
As per all other people here, I do agree on the fact you DO need RAM and cannot work without it, but I also read the following :
This option should be located in "advanced BIOS features", something like second choice on AMI BIOSes.
There are specialized OSes for embedded use that run entirely out of a ROM (read only memory.)  To do anything useful, though, you still usually need at least a small amount of RAM. I have not seen a PC that will boot without RAM though.
Your assumption that the memory is bad is likely invalid. If you get no beeps or on-screen messages, The root cause is almost certainly a failed CPU (somewhat unlikely) or a failed mainboard (very likely). Mainboards fail with age all the time due to cold solder joints, which were a common occurrence in the early days of the ROHS movement and the requirement to use lead-free solder.
Manufacturing techniques had been optimized for using lead-based solder and the industry took a while to catch on and resolve the issues. Many component manufacturers weren't very willing to spend the money to upgrade their processes. After all, the devices would test and burn in just fine, only to fail months or years later, after any warranty had likely expired. Only with a growing mountain of failures and intense negative feedback from users did the manufacturers begin to improve things.