I recently inherited infrastructure duties for a small startup I am working with.  My traditional role has been development, so bear with me...
I was hoping to start off on the right foot, and get Active Directory up and running in Azure.  I have followed the guides on Microsoft's TechNet for Installing an AD forest in an Azure VPN, and I have the following structure
I spin up a second Server 2012 R2 A1 Standard VM for replication purposes within the same Auth Subnet - IP 192.169.2.5, and create this VM with Username2/Password2.  I then join this VM to the domain created with the first DC.  After joining the domain, I attempt to promote this VM as a replica DC.  It asks for credentials to perform this action, and I provide DOMAIN\Username1:Password1 as the credentials.
I have Server 2012 R2 on an A1 Standard VM in the Auth subnet, IP 192.169.2.4.  AD Install went great, started a new forest, everything seemed to work well.  This VM was created with Username1/Password1, which is automatically added as a Domain Admin/Enterprise Admin when AD is installed.
I have deleted and recreated the VM many times, trying to perform the installation.  I tried logging into VM2 as the domain admin, and performing the promotion.  I have also tried just about every means of providing the domain credentials during the promotion (Username1@domain:Password1, DOMAIN\Username1:Password1, domain.com\Username1:Password1), no matter what the installation hangs.  Each time I was careful to follow the steps in the article for removing VM2 from the forest on VM1 before trying to promote again.
I believe I am missing a step, or not seeing a small piece I am missing, but my inexperience is shining through.
During the promotion process AD reaches a step where it is "Creating an NTDS settings object" on the parent AD VM, the installation stalls out at this step.  According to this article here: Active Directory installation stalls at the "Creating the NTDS settings object", This is a result of either the domain credentials being the same as the local credentials?  Or I have incorrectly provided the domain credentials to the installation.