Macs don't have mic-in (microphone input) jacks, they only have line-in jacks. Line-in jacks are "line level" audio input jacks, for receiving moderately amplified audio signals from another independently-powered piece of audio equipment like an audio CD player. Line-in ports expect power levels about an order of magnitude stronger than microphones usually provide.
It doesn't have a mic input, it's a line input.  The solution was to purchase a USB sound card with mic level input such as a iMic or similar.  Once I did that I didn't have any more issues and I could use skype just fine.
It's theoretically possible to use regular headphones as a microphone, since at the base level, a microphone is just a speaker in reverse. You would have to plug your headphones into the Line In jack and then scream at the earpiece. It will likely sound like garbage.
If you don't have your own mic or iPhone headset, the simplest option will likely be to just pick up one of these.
If you have headphones that contain a built-in mic, you might be able to get that built-in mic to work on the headphone jack of your Mac mini, as long as the tip/ring/sleeve "pinout" of your headphones' 3.5mm phono plug matches the way Apple does the pinout for their iPhone headset with microphone.
The Mac mini contains no internal microphone, so you need to attach your own to the Line In jack. If you have an iPhone headset (this would look like iPod earbuds but with a microphone capsule on the cord and a TRRS 3.5mm plug on the end), you can plug that into the headphone jack and go to town.
Using the earpiece of a headphone as a makeshift microphone might kinda-sorta work, albeit at very low quality, on a mic-in jack, but it would never work on line-in. Even with very large over-the-ear headphones, the amount of power generated by your vocal sound waves vibrating the speaker cone to move the speaker coil through the magnets would be far too little to really register on a line-in jack.
Like jcomeau_ictx suggested, you can get a pre-amp for a microphone that amplifies the signal from mic-level to line-level. Or as NReilingh suggested, you can get a USB microphone that has it's own ADC (Analog to Digital Converter), so it basically acts as its own mic-in jack and sound input card.
(I feel like I've just consolidated and expounded upon what the other Answers have said, without adding much of my own, so feel free to vote them up instead of me.)