Basically, when the power button is pressed, the two wires are connected, current flows momentarily, and that is the signal for the BIOS to turn the computer on.
A company like Show me cables may be able to help you with this. But it seems to be the power button which uses a low voltage and a snip and splice in more wire of the same gauge wire should work just fine.
you might even see what it is by running it when it's out and running it when it's in like if it's an LED.
Those one pin things that go to the front of the case, could be the power button, HDD LED(LED on the front of the case showing HDD activity),   or reset button..  
To extend, well, if you have another box you could cut some similar sized ones and strip them and tie them together. When you cut them and strip the ends it's just copper wires you can twist together. or an electronics store has wires like that on a reel.
From the hints in the comments on the question and the pic, looks to me like that is the wires from the power button. 
pull them out.. run the computer.  It's probably not a fan but make sure fans come on just to be sure.   But test power button and reset buttons 'cos it could be one of those.
I don't think you'll find it easy to find an extension cable for such a wire, but you could try wiring one up yourself. I've had to do something similar myself (extending wires for a fan lead), and I just snipped the cable, stripped the wires, and twisted in some more wire I found out of some old computers, and used electrical tape to seal the connections. If you're unsure about messing around with that sort of stuff though, I'd suggest going to an electrician, or TV/Radio repair shop or something like that. They'd likely be able to do it for reasonably cheap.
or you could fish out the motherboard manual and it'd have a picture with clear markings, particularly useful if the motherboard markings aren't very readable.
I think these are standard pin/connector arrays with 1/10", ie. 2.54mm spacing. Go to your local electronics store and ask for pin array and the female counterpart with 100mil (imperial) or 2.54mm spacing. You need them to solder the cable yourself, but if ready-made exist, I have no idea where to get them.
In this case the array is 40 pins long, but it can be cut to desired length with pliers (see the grooves between every pin).