So far so good, and the touch keyboard taskbar toolbar hasn't appeared, even after multiple computer restarts!
Then, restart your computer. After restarting, you'll see that touch services should no longer be invoked, and your tabs in Firefox should no longer be huge (that's one of the symptoms that I had on my computer, so I'm listing it here for search engine purposes). You can now proceed to update your touch pad drivers to the version compatible with Windows 8.
I wouldn't mess around with the above solutions of attempting to take ownership of all the system folders, as that may compromise system security.
Personally, I just used the nuclear option of deleting the Touch Input Panel dll file. For me, this file is located at C:\Program Files\Common Files\microsoft shared\ink\tipband.dll. Note that, first, you will have to take ownership of the file from TrustedInstaller using the Security tab in file properties. In addition, because explorer.exe loads the file when it starts up, I first had to terminate explorer.exe from the Task Manager, and then use an elevated command prompt to delete this file.
I had this same issue with my ASUS G75VW. Since you're also on a laptop, I'm willing to wager you have some sort of drivers installed for your touch pad, just as I did. It's likely that such drivers are the same ones you've had installed since you had Windows 7.
But after I installed the newest Synaptics driver (16.3.15.1 ?) an made a reboot, the taskbar icon finally disappeared. And: I unchecked 'Enabled Edge Swipes'.
My particular case is apparently different from most other users. I tried all the posted fixes to get the touch keyboard icon to vanish from my taskbar and they all failed. I finally figured it out.
First, try attempting to uninstall your touch pad drivers via Control Panel (the driver might be listed as "Synaptics Touch Pad Driver"). If you can't find it there, press Win+X and attempt to locate it in Device Manager, potentially in the section where you might find input devices.
A while back I bought a Logitech T650 Touchpad and installed it. I used it for a few days then returned it. That's when I noticed the icon on my taskbar. I went into the setpoint software settings, clicked on unifying software settings, then advanced, then I unchecked the T650 from the list of devices. Success! The touch keyboard is still listed in the toolbar choices but doesn't appear on the taskbar,