You can run them in a virtual machine or on a physical computer either by installing or just running straight from the CD.  The download is much smaller (~150mb) than a full Ubuntu CD too.
Well, it all depends on what you need as a server. I tend to prefer Ubuntu LTS or debian (though i'm running jaunty at the moment, for various reasons). I favour builiding it off a minimal install or a server cd, but YMMV on either. In any case,save the headache of tweaking more than you need to by deciding what you need.
They're a good way to get going quickly and once you learn your way around, you can graduate to building your own server from scratch.
Samba is useful for a file server, though you need to look up on how to config it.I also have build-essential since some things i run are compiled and run as a user.
When you use a LAMP system, much of the components will already been chosen for you. Linux with Apache is the natural choice. And for a home system an Oracle database is pure overkill so MySQL is a good choice too. Then you have to chose between PHP or Python, which are both used for web development.
When picking some third-party products, you will have to check what you want to use on your system, exactly. Do you want a forum? A bug reporting system? A blog? A complete CRM system? A photo gallery? So many options to choose from. And whatever distribution you pick, you need to configure it to fully support this product. (Fortunately, almost all products will install nicely on almost all distributions.
I'd recommend choosing a Turnkey Linux appliance.  These use Ubuntu Server and are pre-configured to run various applications/servers and are set up to be pretty secure and efficient.  
Setting up your own server does require you to decide upon a lot of things. As have been pointed out, pick a good Linux distribution that contains whatever you need. Unfortunately, at that point your work only starts!
Hardwarewise - pretty much any 'recent' x86 machine probably will do. having as much ram and hard disk as possible is a good idea, though there's no need to overdo it. my LAMP/Fileserver is a PIII 450 with 640 mb of ram, though if i were building new, i might go for a nano or atom based box with as much ram as possible. 
And then you have a server, running the software you like. And at first you get 5 visitors per day, and things run fine. Then more visitors will arrive and amongst them, some will be spambots and hackers, who will try to misuse your system. You will need to moderate your server a bit more, especially putting a stop to possible hack attacks. If you run a forum or blog, you'll need to do something about the spam messages and spam comments that will pop up sooner or later. Soon it becomes too much for one person to handle and you will need a few friends to help you to moderate your site's content.
When deciding upon which development language to use, you might find more practical advise at StackOverflow. Of course, if you use some ready-to-use product to just install on your system, things will become a bit easier. Will you do the software development yourself or pick some third-party products?
They have a nice web-based configuration interface to configure most things, but you can always drop into a shell if and when you need to.
You'd be best off running the box headless - set it up on a wired connection, and stick it somewhere- and use SSH for admin. 
For torrents; i've installed wine + utorrents (special partition for downloading stuff, so I always have room at main partition).
Assuming you want a LAMP stack, you can install it during installation or with the 'tasksel' command.