Most apps (including browsers) obey the glyphs' dimensions as defined in the font. In fact they probably use methods that display longer strings in one step (although I'm not aware of the details). If some of the glyphs are a bit wider than the rest then it's not an entirely monospace font, it's almost monospace with some exceptions.
In most terminal emulators, the larger characters will simply overlap on the character on the right, while in chromium for example, larger characters will push the rest of the line to make space for itself.
Terminal emulators use a special drawing method, they position each character independently because they need to force the characters into a grid, otherwise the overall layout would just fall apart. You can especially nicely see this in action if you choose a non-monospace font (the result will look ugly, but remain grid-aligned). (Note that konsole might be an exception, I've seen it doing weird things.)
To make browsers behave like terminal emulators, I recommend you to try placing each and every character separately in its own span or div with position: absolute or fixed, or something similar.
To be more specific, let's suppose I have a monospaced font with some glyphs larger than the normal character width (for example, fontawesome icons).
Why is that? What is rendering the text in those applications? Is it the app itself? Is it an operating system component? Are terminals specifically designed to avoid this problem?
To provide some background, I'm working on hyper, which is basically a terminal in chromium, and this is causing issues with characters alignment.
And the complementary question : is there any way to make chromium behave like most terminals, so that monospaced fonts stay monospaced even when there are larger glyphs.
Operating systems provide a number of text drawing facilities that the developers are able to choose from. Terminal emulators usually require mono spaced fonts and the text rendering you see is a natural result of this constraint. Browsers use more sophisticated facilities that allow proportional fonts and much more. That doesn't mean that many options will be provided to the user. The browser rendering you see would usually be preferred. Of course not everyone will agree.