Now, I have renamed the C:\Windows\System32\osk.exe and moving the file, so it can't be found. (That
The closed any of these responders came was the osk.exe Registry Value. However, that had no effect, either. It has gone total "Sara Palin." This rouge application is not obeying any UI system commands to just simply shut up and shut down, ...for good.
I ended up turning off all CPU processors, but one, the osk.exe accesses, which I don't think will have any effect.
There HAS to be a better way. Sometimes I actually use it, when my keyboard batteries are dead are the wireless connection falters.
- On the top left hand side there are a few buttons, one of them is Tools> Options, or Options> Tools. 
It does not show up under 1) Windows Features, 2) CMD: Path, 3) Appearance and Personalization, 4) Ease of USE [which is obviously corrupt], 4) Services [under any user friendly name], 5) Device Manager or 6) any other listing.
s perhaps redundant. However, this thing is hard to kill and keeps coming back. the onscreen keyboard "IS" the Walking Dead. The "Process" refused to be "killed.") Each reboot starts the horror all over.
As an user with Adminstrative Rights and creating another profile with Administrative Rights, the a) Login Screen lower left menu, b) Control Panel Ease of Use options, c) Start Menu Accessories dropdown, d) Start-up Keyboard e) Logged-on Keyboard and f) OSK.EXE Registry Value application interfaces have no effect.
We are using Windows 7 Embedded on a display TV with a touchscreen driver. The onscreen keyboard mini window drove me nuts. 
For months, I have been trying to turn off the onscreen keyboard and I have yet to find actual Technical Support verses user instructions.
After four months and 5 dedicated hours tonight, I have seem over a hundred complaints and every response was "introduction to first time computer user assistance" and EACH time the responder completely missed the mark. We are talking about a corrupt process, not "where is the off button." Each time, the writer became more and more agitated and upset from the lack of comprehension by the off-the-cuff responses that failed to actually read the problem as opposed to seeing the words Turn Keyboard Off." Today, every child that can reach a keyboard knows about the upper right hand "X", File>Close/Exit and menu options.