I was searching for wallpaper images on Google Images and I stumbled upon what appears to be a malicious website. I saw an interesting image in the search results and I clicked on the Visit Page link to visit the page that holds the image, hoping to find some interesting article or blog post.
I thought the computer was about to crash because it almost stopped responding. At least four new windows were opened. But then I received the following two info messages telling me that the security settings caused the application to stop. Luckily...
For extra credit you may want to read the Setting the Security Level of the Java Client article, which states the reason for the dialog:
Presumably the applet was indeed blocked as stated and no malicious code got executed on your system. Even if code did get executed perhaps there's a chance it wasn't able to break out of the Java VM's sandbox and affect your system. Of course, given Java's poor security track record there's no guarantee an exploit hasn't compromised your system despite those messages.
I'd suggest: i) thoroughly scanning your system with multiple anti-malware tools, and ii) disabling Java if you don't use it or at the very least update. What are you doing running an insecure/expired JRE anyway?
It's part of neither. If you'd done us the favour of translating the error messages it would have been easier and I wouldn't have had to resort to an online translator. Anyway, the last word on the dialog very clearly mentions which program is responsible, i.e. JRE.
At first the website seemed normal. But after clicking on a link on the main webpage, Firefox started opening new windows and what you see in the screenshot below is the content of one of the windows.
After clicking OK two times it stopped opening new windows. I quickly closed the tab holding the URL to the malicious website.
Should I be concerned about a possible infection now? Or was the infection diverted? And what program is responsible for these dialog boxes? Is this part of a Windows or Firefox security feature?