Lets leave off the technical issues presented by the map API's for a moment, and just explore the multi-scale world conceptually for a moment:
There are a lot of particulars that I think need to be answered but the biggest problem as I see it is that players can't see/interact with players operating on scales above and below them. This sounds great in that the big players can't just squash the newbies, but complete isolation isn't going to be possible in practice because players need to be able to cross into the next scale up as they grow otherwise they are all just playing 10 different games. Given that you indicated there were 10 different scales, this means that for any particular location, there can be 10 overlapping domains, but at any scale, the location can only be owned by one player.
What happens The Insurgent's new 'B' scale territory is in the middle of an area all owned by The Overlord? 
The Overlord -- 'B' scale player controlling the 'B' scale territory The Insurgent will be promoted into.
From a game design perspective. The complete, consistent, and well understood model beats out the incomplete model with unresolved (or unresolvable) technical or conceptual issues.
Based on your descriptions, it sounds like the con listed for the scaling territory design is technical in nature, and the cons listed for the non-scaling territory design are more a matter of personal opinion. 
Have you considered negotiating equity? If you're confident that this design decision will impact the sales of the game, and that there is no other way to convince this person that the group should go in your direction, maybe you could give him some equity in exchange for more control. If he gets an extra 5 or 10% of the cut, this might be enough to sway him to go your way - and then in the end both parties get more of what they want. And then in the end if the design decision ended up helping the game by significantly more than 5-10%, then you'll come out ahead. 
If you have solid answers for all this, the scaling design does seem like it could have some late-game benefits to it (no longer having to manage the minutia), but if not, it seems like the whole scaling scheme is incomplete at best, or completely broken at worst.
Why not both? What I mean by that is start off with small squared, and expand them, however make each bigger square contain smaller ones. This might add to diversity in the form of having "small" players attack "big" players, and thus being big doesnt mean you can not lose. As a big one attacked on multiple fronts you will not be able to defend each attacked small square. So even though you win 10 battles, you will lose 1, and this might help for a weirder shapes formed. At least this is how I imagine it.
In other words: The game could be made to work consistently in a readily understood manner with the non-scaling design, but the scaling design, as is, still has at least technical holes in it, but from my understanding it seems there are conceptual holes as well.
What happens to the long standing 'A' scale border dispute between The Rival and The Insurgent after the promotion? 
What happens if this was the only territory controlled by The Overlord? (Are they out of the game from a threat they had no options to defend against?) 