What they would whitelist is your Internet (aka public) IP address. However, you can’t control that. To get a fixed IP address, you’d need a business Internet subscription, which is usually a lot more expensive.
You should inform yourself and also talk to the guy in case you have to buy something in order to get the IP. I'm not an expert on this but a VPN network would add a security layer as its usually encrypted. Give it a look: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virtual_private_network
This is the normal route for individuals.  Ask your ISP.  If your ISP wants to charge you more (and classify it as a business connection), that is a somewhat-common practice I've heard of before.  Either accept that offering, or seek elsewhere.  I've heard of ISPs providing static IP addresses for free, upon request.  I can distinctly remember of one example of such a company, local to where I live.  Whether you have such an option where you live may be a different story.  Check out the competition.
If there is a computer out there with a static IP, and you can connect/VPN into that computer, then you may be able to send traffic from that computer's IP address, which your work could then whitelist.
The last time I looked into getting a block of IPv4 addresses from an RIR, there was a basic requirement of having two live Internet connections.  This was intended to make sure that address blocks are just given out to entities who have sufficient need for addresses.
So if you must work remotely, your company will give you VPN access – or your dismissal. It’s really as simple as that.
I have a friend who works at an ISP.  He set up a computer, and gave away accounts.  (Since then, we've been giving away accounts with far less frequency.)
In that case you could also rent one and use a tunnel or get it trough your ISP. In these cases you probably will have to pay more, but not nescessarily. Some ISPs might offer a static IP in a normal package for non-business internet subscriptions.
To pursue this, I guess you may want to look up "free shell accounts".  And you may need to learn a bit about things like port forwarding, VPNs, using a command line (in a UNIX-based platform), etc.  (When I say VPN, I'm referring to using a VPN to the provider of the server you're using, which you then use to connect to work.  I'm not suggesting using a VPN to connect from anywhere directly to work, because that requires setup/cooperation from the IT at work.)
For most professionals, option #2 is probably the most common way that is typically considered easiest.  Really, if you can find a nice ISP, there may not really be significant drawbacks to this method.
He didn't say that it has to be an IPv4 address. You can get IPv6 addresses for free and use a tunnel. See https://tunnelbroker.net/, for example (Not sure if safe, I just found it). But still, he might not accept Ipv6 addresses.