The WinSxS directory gets into .dll versioning stuff and I don't have the courage to mess with that.  I remember trying to stuff Vista in a 20GB partition when it first came out and that directory took 6GB all by itself.  This was AFTER a clean install.
I don't know of a tool to "clean" driver.cab.  There's many utilities to remove unwanted drivers on a system but to this day I don't know of any I would trust.  I do know that nLite on Windows XP (vLite for Vista and later - never tried it) allows you to remove drivers from a created installation disc, and I believe it rebuilds that file (I could be wrong).
I haven't found a good answer for why the files are there (mainly because I don't care enough to figure it out), but I get the idea that they're kept for restore points.  If you feel like you're likely to do a system restore, I'd make a full backup of the drive first.
I don't know if these are still present in Vista/7, but in XP, the $NtUninstall******$ folders in your Windows directory can take up quite a bit of space and can be safely deleted (assuming you don't plan on ever needing to uninstall any Windows Updates).
Another thing you can delete merrily are subdirectories of C:\WINDOWS with names that begin and end with '$' and have the word "uninstall" in their names. These are backup system files from installations of service packs and OS updates. You'll see they are listed in blue; that means they're compressed. TYpically, you're never going to revert such updates.
Vista (and, from what I've read, XP) does not always delete files when you empty the recycle bin.  Sometimes they're stored in a $RECYCLE.BIN folder on your C drive.  When I begin to get a little short on space, I delete the entire folder, which gets recreated (minus all of the files) automatically.  To delete the folder, you should be in an elevated Explorer window.
To actually address @nik's question, the biggest consumers of diskspace as far as Windows itself (apart from components which can be removed from "Programs and Features" or "Add/Remove Programs") seems to be the driver.cab file and the WinSxS directory.  
These directories do NOT get erased by the Disk Cleanup tool in XP. I'm not certain about Vista or 7.