Router B will be double NATed.  This means it's very difficult for machines from the Internet to connect to anything behind router B.  You probably want this since it's for your kids.
Sure, the only thing you'll want to make sure to do is set them to different subnets.  Most consumer routers are set to use 192.168.1.*  
Assuming Internet > RouterA > RouterB, the one disadvantage you'll have is that systems attached to RouterA will not be able to access systems behind RouterB unless you set up routes.
You really only want one DHCP server per network (or multiple ones working in a redundant configuration).  If you have more than one on a given network, whichever DHCP server answers first is going to be the one that gets to configure that DHCP client.  So if you have two separate configurations you want to "push" via DHCP, you can't do it predictably if both DHCP servers are on the same network - not to mention if the IP ranges overlap, you'll have IP conflicts.
However, in your case, it sounds like you really want two separate networks, one for your use and one for your kids.  You can do this with what you have.
Short answer: no, you cannot bridge two DHCP servers together. Computers that join the network would get an address from whichever router that responded first, and the two routers would not check in on each other.
By segmenting your network like this, you'll have a separate network for you and your kids and can do what you want.
You can absolutely do this. I have a wireless AC router with the default gateway being 10.0.0.1 and this is my main or master router. I have another router that's connected from a powerline adapter wired into the second router. The second router has an IP address range of the standard 192.168.1.1 address block and although I assigned my second router a static IP from the master router it would work either way. I have router RIP enabled only because of other things I do behind the double NAT.That slave router model should be fine and you would have the second router allocating IP addresses and you shouldnt have a problem using DYNDNS or OpenDNS. Sometimes depending on Hardware its kind of trial and error. You could also have the second router in the same subnet as the master router by creating a different segment within that ip network. i.e.Master 192.168.1.2-192.168.1.100 and slave 192.168.1.101-192.168.1.200. Some routers may give you issues if you use a VPN to encapsulate your data and ive noticed the packet headers may contain some false data but everything should work ok with a little work and configuration.Following the answer  given above will work but doing it with both routers dhcp enabled and segmenting the network will give you more security and better network minipulation.
Longer answer: you could make one router a DHCP client of the other. This would make a network inside your network, and you could control what the inside subnet would see. Downside is the inner network would have NAT running twice, but you'd have a "private" network.
When you turn off DHCP and NAT, you're effectively turning that router into a switch, not bridging them together.
Router A should work normally.  If you have things you need accessible via the Internet, make sure it's connected to Router A and setup your port forwarding on Router A like you would on any normal router.