First upload your application to app engine(thoroughly explained in the documentation). Next you can curl your application. let's say your application = 'sendmail'. When you do curl http://sendmail.appspot.com/email -d "to=y@z.com&subject=hi&body=hi&secret=1234" you will send that email to y@z.com
Unfortunately at this time, PostageApp is just a layer between an application and an SMTP server, neither of which we provide. However, we are rolling out a hosted SMTP service within the coming weeks, making us a complete end-to-end solution.
If you want to give us a try, definitely send me an email at jon@postageapp.com and I would be happy to set you up with something. But at the same time, definitely try out all of the other services and make sure that your needs are taken care of.
Rather than a picture, it might have been better to have created that as a Google Docs Spreadsheet (or similar online document - there are a number of competitors in the field) and shared the link to that.
That said, PostageApp is a great solution because not only is it easy to integrate but also has a great API and a strong template system that the users really love.
Also when comparing services like that you should not compare the prices based on using up an exact allowance that matches the provider's pricing bands. In your basic comparison a "$20-for-20,000 mails" comes out the same as "$9-for-9,000 mails" which isn't true: it is a lot more expensive if you only send 5,000 for instance. A run-down like this is a much better way to compare services with different price bands (though with your range of expected volumes plugged in rather than the arbitrary bands of 2500 I've thrown at it).
(not really an answer, as it doesn't cover the technical aspects at all, but this is too long for a comment on your question)
In my opinion they all are dismissed. You should use google app engine email service. You can send to recipients for 1000 every day and after that it will cost you $0.0001 per recipients.
You have to replace and SECRET = '1234'  with your SECRET to protect application and SENDER = 'x@.y.com with the email address of one of your registered users.
I would give DeliverHQ a go. They are currently in beta at the moment. By the same people who make PointHQ and CodebaseHQ
Comparing those three solutions (as well as the others you have listed) all pretty much come down to preference. They all offer a free account that you can integrate into your staging environment and test out, which would give you an idea of how they operate it.