Through caveats include no changes or access will be allowed on production or UAT servers, any requested changes will be done through terraform and ansible to keep things consistent.
The way I would look into setting up a CI/CD pipeline using Jenknnis and actioned through Azure DevOps as this is what they use, I would ensure code pushed from the DEV branch is deployed to UAT and tested then deployed to replicate production servers and once tested DNS is switched over to the new servers and the old ones are brought down.
So my ideal setup would be creating a production environment for whatever project, replicating the stack and using that as UAT. This would be done through Terraform and Ansible. The Dev estate I am not too sure how this is going to be setup yet but I was thinking about learning docker and k8s to bring up a dev estate.
Personally with my limited experience I have used Terraform and ansible and I have felt this provides alot of the work to have that infrastructure as code system in place. At the same time I understand there are tools like chef, puppet and salt which would probably make the job easier but that is where my question is what would you guys want and how would you want to implement it. I should finally mention we seem to be using Azure DevOps as the main tool to setup and manage the pipelines.
so I have 8 months of DevOps experience previously working as a desktop engineer for two and a half years.Starting a new role in the education sector, recently they brought their IT department which previously worked in different projects/faculties and now they have all been brought together.So this is where I come in to help dictate the application development process by designing and maintaining the infrastructure to build an efficient route to live regardless of the project. So this is essentially a blank slate.
The way how the code is deployed is through building the codebase on the same server Jenkins would be setup on, sending a tar'd file of the code to AWS CodeDeploy to be taken to the next environment. 