So I am about to buy a new laptop and was wondering what OS I should commit to.  I have been using Windows XP for quite some time and feel it's time to move on.  I have heard Windows 7 has been getting good reviews but I have been using Ubuntu 10.04 LTS Live from my flash drive to test the OS out and I like it alot! (I also used Kbuntu at my university)
All-in-all its more of a question of what are you going to need the laptop to do, and which OS can do it better. 
First thing you should make sure of is that the hardware in the laptop is compatible with Linux. Nowadays the hardware support for Linux is superb, and most likely there is a driver or workaround for all of your hardware. My last install of Ubuntu 10.04 LTS found every driver on the first try!
It very much depends what you intend to use the machine for. For instance if you plan to play modern games then you Windows is the way to go (though some play nicely under Wine, most don't).
So my question is: Upgrade to Windows 7, make the switch to a Linux distro (and which one do you prefer), or both (dual-boot)?
Or, if you've got the hardware and HDD space, set up a dual boot! I recommend installing Windows first, and then Ubuntu, if you plan on a dual-boot situation. Doing it the other way has caused me too many headaches in the past, although it has been since XP/Ubuntu 6.04 since I've set up a dual-boot.
It really depends on what the machine's purpose is, and your expertise with using the operating systems.
Rather than dual-booting you might find virtualisation (using free-as-in-beer products like Virtual Box) far more convenient, running Windows directly on the machine and Linux in a VM, or vice versa (Linux on the machine and Windows in a VM). Just make sure you get a machine with plenty of RAM.
If you're going to use the laptop for games, web browsing, and general computer usage, you may be better off with Windows. I haven't been a fan of MS since XP, but Windows 7 is actually pretty nice. 
Personally, I use Linux on any computer that I have a say-so in what is installed. But, for the average user, Windows may make more sense to use.
As you are already familiar with Ubuntu, that would be the place I'd suggest you start. The virtualisation option is a help here too: you can try many different configurations if you want to and switch between them with ease in order to compare the differences and see which works best for you.