Unless you really need to push a lot of data right now, I think in the future with the trends for selling laptops and handheld devices convenience will trump speed as long as it's "good enough" and you'll see improved use of wireless, if for no other reason than cutting down one more wiring run that has to be done to each workstation (and people keep wanting to move them around anyway). I remember it wasn't all that long ago people were pushing for fiber to the desktops for better speed and future-proofing.
It is when you get above 50m or so that the cable types will start to have an actual effect on your performance. What you will typically see when you run ethernet too far is (in roughly this order)
But that's purely my own speculation. For all I know there will come a time when you install a faceted dome that hones in and shoots data using lasers straight to your devices. Just don't stand between the dome and the device or you'll get a slight warming sensation.
Generally speaking the better cables will reduce noise on the line. This is not that much of an issue unless you are pushing the distance limits. You can do 10GBit over telephonwire if it is less than a meter.
Whatever you do, make 100% sure that the installation is tested with proper equipment after it is installed.  Just because all the parts are marked as "cat5e" or "cat6" or "cat7a" or whatever, doesn't mean anything.  It all needs to be put together correctly for it to actually perform to the specified ratings.
If you are rolling out 1G Cat 5e is fine for the vast majority of installations. If you are rolling out 10Gbit the 33meter limit is pretty hard. Note that this is reduced further by the patch cables. I typically recommend people to use SM fiber instead of copper if they are rolling out 10Gig. It is not a large price difference and distance is suddenly a non-issue. 
Cat6a is hugely expensive and difficult to work with.  Cat6 is almost as expensive and nearly as hard to work with (thicker, harder to bend, etc)
If you want to be able to run 10gig ethernet over copper, you need a 100% cat6A cable plant, not just cat6.  With cat6, you can run up to 55meters "in a favorable alien crosstalk environment" which means you don't have lots of cables right next to each other.  I've run 10gig over cat5e without problems on 100foot runs.
There is no real advantage of cat6 over cat5e.  Specifically, both can run gig ethernet the same distances and when you go to 10gig ethernet, neither is 100% guaranteed to work.
I guess it can make a big difference if your cables are laying next to neons and ventilation docks (in a suspended ceiling for example). In that case maybe the Cat6 get less interference and so better performance on the network.