the network config looks like you have a dedicated NIC for iscsi traffic - this always good. even better if it's 10GbE, though I suspect that this is 1GbE?  If you dont need the other two NIC's on the same LAN you could bond another interface and use LACP to get better throughput.
when designing SAN or storage it's important to work out what you are storing, the expected access profile, the required access profile and the requires resilience/redundancy.
Secondly, being totally green to this, I would like to confirm that the setup is optimized and we are taking advantage of all features available.  Although there are 3 NIC's in this machine it appears that the initiator is only configured for the Broadcom BMC5708C NetXtreme II on our 10.90.1.#, the other 2 NICS are 1GB on the 192.168.0.#. Would additional targets improve performance?
(I'm a new User so the lovely and vibrant screen images had to be removed.  They were quite pretty and I am sure you would have been very moved and appreciative of them.)
First, to get rid of the error msg being logged.  MS says it can be ignored if everything is working but it chews up resources logging it and I don't feel comfortable about any errors on my servers.  I want to correct whatever is causing this problem.
This is being recorded every 3/100's of a second.  We are using MS iSCSI Initiator on Windows Server 2003, Dell 2970 w/4GB (PAE).  I am sure that this was configured by Dell initially.  I have no idea what changes or mods were made since the company installed this machine until now.
If someone who is experienced in configuring the Microsoft iScsi Initiator can help I would really appreciate it since, as I mentioned, everything I have come across has not been of any value at all.
I believe you need to take a look at http://support.microsoft.com/kb/972107 - form your fault text I would sumerise that something like intermittent connection timeout is causing the iscsi target to logout and then be unable to log back in, but comes back online realy quickly after. check the iscsi portal device and see if the logs there can help. 
It appears that everything is installed correctly and the 5TB bound volume is accessible but I have never worked with iScsi before so I plead total ignorance. In searching I have found this to be a fairly sparce and bland documented subject.