One possibility is to build a server around a mini-ITX board with a VIA EPIA CPU which can be used to build fanless computers. The other possibility is to build it around a mini-ITX that uses an Intel ATOM CPU such as the Zotac ION.
In either case, you would probably want to put the hard drives outside the computer case, in their own box with its own temperature controlled fan. There are external cables that can be used to connect SATA drives, and even if the motherboard only has internal SATA connectors, you can get adaptors to allow you to connect external SATA. For the drive case, anything will do if you are willing to punch a hole in the case to run in the SATA cables.
I recommend OpenFiler (http://openfiler.com/).  It's a Linux-based NAS appliance, and it supports NFS, CIFS, WebDAV, RSYNC, FTP, and iSCSI.  It can also be tied into Active Directory for authentication if necessary, or it can use itself as an LDAP server.  I've been using it for a while, and I love it.  It's easy to configure with the included management website.
I built my new home server around AMD's 45 watt CPU and a cube case with a 200w power supply, but I use it for much more than backups.
As for hardware, I would look for a mini-ITX system.  That would be low power, and the BIOS probably has options for spinning down hard drives when unused.  That would help cut the power usage significantly, especially if they can be spun down roughly 23 hours per day.  There's also options within Linux to spin down drives when unused, such as setting the drive options using hdparm or installing software like noflushd.
I'd have to look into it some more to know for sure; the basic board will use a flash card; however, I think you could use external USB hard drives (in which case you'd have to factor in the power they use, and, if they are powered by the USB port, you'd probably need a powered USB hub.)  I'm just guessing, though, as I haven't looked into it for a while.
OpenFiler also supports software RAID, so if you're looking to spend less on hardware, you can still have redundancy.
One thing I'd be interested in trying is the Beagle Board.  It costs ~$150 (US, presumably), and (according to wikipedia) only uses 2 Watts of power.  It sounds like a few Linux distros will run on it.