Another source, thats easier to obtain (search for "kcc3.h"): https://alovesly.files.wordpress.com/2013/03/oracle-recovery-internal2.pdf
It must be said, although you technically may be able to differ (as explained above), it's never a good sign if questions like that are asked. Either no permissions are granted, or knowledge is limited. Both are not good. The good way of differing both databases, is querying some V$ view. What I'm describing above, is an alternative method, but you should not rely too much on it. Why not ? Because when alternative situations emerge, the procedure may not work anymore.
Then you compare both lists, in detail. Chances you find some process description active on one, but not on the other, is pretty high. 
Doing this on a non-standby database, with minimal supplemental logging (0x4000000) and force logging (0x1000000) enabled (for GoldenGate replication):
Note2, I don't care about the quasi-solution where as root you simply su to the Oracle owner and sqlplus / as sysdba. I want to do this without a database connection. No V$ views allowed, no X$ tables allowed.
Oracle DBAs are very used to doing things like ps -ef | grep pmon or ps -ef | grep tnslsnr to quickly check if things are running, and these commands require no DB access.  They can even be run from an unprivileged (non-root) Unix user who doesn't own Oracle.  So thinking along those lines, I have 90% of it solved with things like ps -eo args | grep mrp0, but that falls short.  It only works if the standby is mounted and doing managed recovery.  It doesn't work if (i) the standby is simply mounted without starting MRP, or (ii) if the standby has been opened read-only.
I searched for the above values in hex dumps of controlfiles, and found that this particular information can be found at position 44030 (278576 decimal) in all the versions and databases I have tried (10.2.0.5, 11.2.0.4, 12.1.0.2). So we can get this information by dumping the controlfile as:
One can easily check via SELECT database_role FROM v$database; whether your Oracle database is a primary or standby database.  Is it possible to make the same determination without database access, but only having (Unix) host access?
It COULD be simple, but then it's down to luck, more than to anything else. The way of working is very simple : get all processes listed of the main database, ignore the ones from the standby. Then, do the same with the standby database : collect all process info.
Ok, so I had some time to waste, and this is just for the "fun" or "interesting" factor. It's nowhere near that I would use in a real scenario, I have played with it in my lab environment on x86-64 Linux platform, with a few 10g, 11g and 12c databases. At least you can do this even if the database is shut down.
If the flag 0x0000400 is set, then the controlfile is a standy controlfile, so its a standby database. This is explained in the good old Oracle DSI Course 403e (Recovery Architechture Components), File Dump Analysis chapter, Control File Header section.
I'm thinking of; databases being started up and such, but you described already that things may not work if different database modes are used.