forgive if this is dumb. I was wondering if there was any such thing like LaTeX, by which you could write in a markup and compile it to a whole web page (of course with CSS and other styling). I've heard of lightweight markup languages like Textile. But I don't think they serve my purpose.
The most powerful of then is Netbeans. It started life as a Java Editor but with recent releases has developed into a powerful text editor for web scripting.
It can do much more than this, too.  This other example from their website shows how TT can be usedis similar to LaTeX's citation syntax:
Komodo Edit is a free and open-source web language editor that has syntax colouring for Template Toolkit.  I hope this helps!
TeX4ht would allow you to use LaTeX source directly to produce HTML webpages; it typically produces multiple files from a single .tex source. I think of it as a conversion tool, but it could be used directly for creation.
I would advise against using WYSIWYG HTML editors. All the ones I've tried are terrible. And if you're already used to editing LaTeX, learning to mark-up things up directly in HTML won't be a difficult transition. 
For what you're looking to do, Template Toolkit (TT; http://template-toolkit.org/) might be a good option.  It's a templating language that, among other things, will allow you to insert common HTML or CSS code into multiple pages just by linking to a file containing that code.  Here's an example from their About page:
Another advanced editor is HTML-Kit, which began as a specialized HTML editor but now has so many plugins that it is a highly customizable and extensible development environment.
But I have to agree that your question is a little odd. HTML is itself a mark-up language, not terribly different from LaTeX; it would help to know exactly what you're after if it's not just that.
If that's too technical to begin with, use KompoZer, designed for non-technical computer users who want to create an attractive web site without needing to know HTML.