do not try to do anything with the suspicious disk until you have analysed the dump. using the disk might get things worse.
My experiences with Maxtor drives goes back into the 1990s. My first faled drive was a Maxtor and dealing with it taught me about the RMA process and having all your ducks in a row before you make the call. I still have 3 of them and last time I checked they all still worked. Considering the newest one is dates back about 10 years, I am happy. I have had Maxtor drive die within 30 days, fresh out of the anti-stat bag.
again: make a dump if the disk seems physically ok (eg: no strange sounds from the disk; you do not want to make things worse by letting the pladders rotate at high speed near the head if 'something' is wrong) and analyse the dump.
depending on how valuable the data on that disk is: consider buying knowledge from specialists in the data recovery area.
corrupt data means corrupt data. if the harddrive is not physically damaged (which we can not be sure of) the best thing you can do is to create a complete snapshot of that disk and do the analysis of the dump somewhere else.
Seagate bought out Maxtor a number of years ago and the brand name was relegated to a secondary line. My much wider and very recent history of dealing with the Seagate RMA procedure suggests that you might look at this as a failing drive. Seatools will certainly find if there are problems and may or may not be able to help you. The Warranty check site is here:
BTW corrupt data lumps that are improperly attributed will show these oddball things. I would run Recuva from Piriform( the CCleaner people) as it is free and will do a good deep scan with a Deep Scan. Good software that is freeware. If you are feeling wealthier and want something a bit beefier, I have purchased and use UFSexplorer. It is capable of finding files by reading the raw data and ignoring the format of the drive. I have used it to recover data from reformatted and partially over written drives successfully.