I'm trying to understand the difference in NMAP between put -Pn or not. I know that if I'm not mistaken -Pn skip ICMP (ping) scan. Ok.. so I try scan a random VM and intercept the packets with tcpdump. 
The first scan you do nmap -p 9000 -Pn myIP results in two packets sent from the NMAP host, a TCP SYN and a TCP RST. Clearly you are capturing only one direction of traffic, but the scan completes showing port 9000 open.
If your tcpdump filter was capturing traffic in both directions, you would see the response traffic as well.
That leaves seven packets from your capture to account from the second scan. In your second scan you do nmap -p 9000 myIP which only differs by omitting the -Pn. So what does having that flag change? If you check the documentation at nmap.org, the -Pn option disables host discovery and runs the port scan against every designated host.
First, there is no check of a 120 port (either TCP or UDP) in the output you provided, so I will provide no answer for that. Additionally, I am making assumptions that the capture you show is only capturing traffic in one direction (not both) as what is present only makes sense if there is unseen response traffic (and you indicate Nmap shows TCP/9000 open).
The last three packets are a TCP RST for prior SYN connection to TCP/443 and then since the host discovery process has found that the target is online, the port scan SYN and RST for TCP/9000.
Scan with -Pn it's ok, not include any ICMP packet, but the other scan, why it's trying to check the 120, 443 and 80 port when I'm say explicitly check just the 9000?
Now in those last seven packets in your capture, the first four are an ICMP echo (-PE), a TCP SYN to TCP/443 (-PS443), a TCP ACK to TCP/80 (-PA80) and an ICMP timestamp request (-PP). This matches the default action described for host discovery in the Nmap documentation.
Digging a little deeper in the documentation, you will find this description of the default host discovery process if no other discovery techniques are specified: