Have you tried to reinstall your system and use a clean account? Don't delete your old account, just try to see if there is a difference. You can then resuse your old account (complete home folder) and see if the problem reoccurs. If so, it's in your account. That means you have to rebuild your account - not a fun job! 
My Macbook (not Pro) is slow, but usable. I'm going to install an SSD in the DVD bay. This may not be an explanation of your problem, but it will speed up your Mac as well. 
You have a three year old Macbook. I have a 2009 Macbook with 10.10, 8GB RAM, 1TB drive with 80GB free. About two years ago I had similar problems. Then it turned out to be Spotlight. Even if you see that it uses no system resources, turning this off is my first advice.
The range of possible problems is too vast for us to analyze by remote pilot. It might be simpler to Clean Install OS X Yosemite.
It might be a cause of running an very old copy of os you have upgraded it but some packages might be corrupted ,Or Driver packages of your motherboard is got corrupted which is taking much time for responding,or because of some of your internal I/O device is taking much time for responding to CPU  It might be Hard-Disk( but you have checked it. Is it taking much time for transferring data to your external Device like pend drive? Check that also  ), Or may be a Bad Ram, etc... 
I upgraded my Mac from 2GB to 8GB. To be honest I didn't notice any speed improvement then. I didn't do any tests, it was just my feeling. Maybe if I go back to 2 or 4 it would be a problem - no idea. 
My advice is to check by reinstalling all the drivers if it not solve then you could consider backing up the Mac with Time Machine, doing a clean install of OS X , and then restoring your stuff from a backup. That’s a very time consuming process though, and it’s not recommended unless you’ve exhausted all other options.
I finally took my computer to the local Simply Mac store to see if they could fix it. They at first said it might be a faulty logic board. There had been a recall for that, and initial diagnostics pointed in that direction. But in the end they said it turned out to be corruption in the hard disk's partition map, which for whatever reason is not picked up by Disk Utility. They didn't say (or I don't remember) which software they used to fix it, but it seems fine now.
If still this doesn't solve your problem install the OS which has came with your MAC BOOK PRO, that will definitely solve your problem.
In case you have bad sectors on the disk, first format it using full (slow) format. If you have bad sectors, this will "fix" then by rewriting, or flag them as hard errors.