HGST 2.5 inch drives have a good reputation. Also consider solid state drives for both slots for much faster, cooler and silent operation. That big Asus is going to be easier to move around without the weight of 3.5 inch drives!
If you are wanting reliable storage, seriously consider switching to SSD's (particularly Samsung ones based on their 3d technology).  SSD's are generally in the order of 10 times more reliable then hard drives - although unlike hard drives, when they do fail they are likely to do so suddenly and catestrophically.  Further, when it comes to laptops, SSD's can withstand being dropped as there are no moving heads.
As for hard drives themselves, @davidgo's answer mentions the Backblaze Reports. While these are fixed drives, they're in pretty astonishing densities per unit, and they're mounted in a pretty non standard way, so vibration would be an issue. They survive in many cases. I've literally never had a HGST drive die on me ever, so if you want a reliable drive, get one of those. 
If there is a difference in reliability, it is very, very small and not worth worrying about - the 3.5" would be less reliable then the 2.5" because the mechanical forces on it are greater.   That said, the specific model and batch of drive is way more predictive then the form factor.
laptops don't have 3.5 inch drives internally typically - this is cause of power consumption and size more than anything else. However laptop hard drives often have features designed to make mobile use safer - heads that park for example, often in conjunction with internal or external sensors. They might also be designed to run cooler.
I'm now considering the replacement and choosing basically between WD10JPLX and WD10EZEX. I have read some good reviews on WD10EZEX and considering there was this Seagate before I don't mind the weight. Moreover, the 3.5 inch drive would fit into the original bay but the connection cable is flexible so 2.5 inch is still possibility.
I have Asus K95VJ laptop where the original internal 3.5 inch drive died on me. It was 3TB Seagate Baracuda ST3000DM001. I have read that those drives had have huge failure rates and this is actually second time it failed, only now it is not in warranty anymore.
My question is, reliability-wise, is the 2.5 inch better for laptops or are they only preferred because of they smaller size and weight? I would hate another drive to die on me and the laptop environment sure won't be as stable and vibration-free as one would expect in desktop. Are 3.5 inchers more prone to damage while carrying, moving, etc. or it doesn't really matter.
He's also covered SSDs (the scamp), though finding a 3tb SSD would be hard. Personally I find a 'wider' view - that drives will die, and backing them up (more than once if possible!) 