FTP is a good solution. Anyone wanting to transfer large files should learn how to use it. You can setup accounts for all your users and an anonymous account for downloads. Webdav may work well too. When all you have is a hammer, everything looks like a nail. When all you know is a browser, all you can use is the web.
I couldn't find an off-the-shelf solution, and had to roll my own. All the other folks that I knew in the same situation as me (large user generated uploads submitted then re-distributed on the web) had rolled their own solutions as well. I know this isn't what you want to hear, and I hope you find something, but the hive mind doesn't seem to have located a solution for you yet.
Very large files are not dependably transferred via the "web" (ie. browsers). End of story. Why do you think video sharing sites build special apps that install on your computer that assist in the upload? What happens when you are uploading a 1Gb file and it fails at 50%? You try again and again until it succeeds. Lame.
If you are okay with using Amazon S3 as your base setup, you could try writing your own service for it, which allows creating temporary keys to download a file. Or, you could use Dropbox (built on top of Amazon S3) which lets you share files with friends, but they need to have accounts in Dropbox. 
I recently set up an installation of PHPfileNavigator for this purpose.  Since it uses PHP for uploading, you'll need to modify your php.ini (or .htaccess) to specify the memory_limit size.
I would suggest you this. Keep it on dropbox/S3 after encrypting the file with a 1024 encryption key and then share the decrypt key with your users you want to share with. 
Perhaps you could integrate that with some kind of PHP web based file manager. That should keep the interwebers happy.
A few years back I implemented a system that functioned in a very similar way to your description. It was a file sharing portal (centered around some user-generated video game content), and served up thousands of files ranging from 5 to 500Mb.