Most answers have addressed the feasibility of using heart container systems, I'd like to present a reason why you would want to use them over a health bar.
You should however consider the aesthethic difference between heart containers and a health bar. In my opinion, the bar puts the player a lot closer to the mechanics of the game, while the hearts emphasize the fact that this is the life of the character you are showing. Hearts have a lot of meaning attached to them, and you can use this on your favor for some kinds of games.
This is a useful concept to take advantage of if the number of hits your character can take maxes out at a fairly low number (10 -12) and it is important for the player to be able to quickly and confidently know how many more hits they can take.
Why not do both? You can have a health bar divided on discrete intervals. That has a lot of the advantages of both systems:
Here's a word for you: Subitizing.  People can make near-immediate judgments about the number of items in a group if you keep that number round about 4.  Once you go above that point confidence and speed declines drastically.
The new system in Assassin's Creed 3 takes all that away and replaces it with a health bar, and while that gives more control over the health, it replaces the believable system of damage with a critical failure.
With the heart containers I am immediately sure I can take exactly 3 more hits and the 4th will kill me.  With the health bar, it is 4 or 5?  I'm not as certain.
In 2, you could get damaged down to 1 health and keep regenerating it and keep fighting through a lot of pain, the extra health that didn't regen was more like a failure buffer than a real health.
For example, in my current mmo game, the characters starts with 300 health, but that health can grow to over 3000 as the player levels.  If this were implemented as hearts, it means you might start with one heart but have 10 or more hearts later on.  This would either take up a lot of room that could be used otherwise, or the hearts would be so small that the health would be hard to read.
It also limits you from being a infinitely growing system (like most MMOs) because you can keep "improving". This turns out to be a lie, because monsters simply scale in damage to where in reality actual health number is irrelevant. I personally think this needs to die. I feel this is an intellectually lazy, and gameplay cheap system. That cheats the player out of a better experience. One of my favorite MMOs is the Guild Wars line, because improvement isn't a measurement of levels, but skill-based (both player skills and actual activated skills). They cleverly made end-game improvement a hunt for skills. To apply this to WoW would be similar to having an ever expanding list of dropped skills, glyphs, and talent options. To apply this to Diablo 3, would be to have the standard list of runes be level-based, but then have dropped "elite" runes like Diablo 2.
Not only that, but armor was health, and any "damage" to armor resulted in a max-health penalty. Any "potions" you take was limited by armor damage that had to be repaired.
If the health can grow significantly over the course of the game, I think that health bars are more appropriate.  
Also, if the player starts with one heart of health, it will be very hard differentiate between 10%, 25%, 50%, etc levels of health.  Having a bar of health gives a consistent measure of health as a percent throughout the whole game, i.e. 50% health is always halfway down on the bar.
A big thing to remember is that if healing mechanics are health-percentage based and not health amount, then a floating-point health is really no different than a fixed health with more damage resistance.
None of this could be adequately represented with a health bar. And I think the health bar has lowered creativity and believable in lieu of easier maintenance.
I've always preferred the heart system. I feel like it ties into health better, whereas a health bar abstracts damage and doesn't give you any believable relation to damage. All damage results in critical failure at the 0 point.
To give you an idea of what I mean, I really liked the Assassin's Creed health style (from the 2 line). You could regenerate the last partial health block. Health blocks had a discrete 4 hit damage. And damage was reduced by armor.
I liked this. I felt that it let me survive a lot more than health alone, but gave me an even more suspenseful feeling at one health block left than in 3 where it regens out of combat and I start at full health instantly.