I definitely agree with the notion that basic symptoms of this problem sounds like it is related to a PATH MTU problem. There are other possibilities, but that is the most likely place to start.
I have now sent a similar TCP connection request packet to www.adobe.com from my local machine (the only difference being the source IP address) and compared the response packet I get with the one in your latest tcpdump.
Given the prominence of the sites you mention and presumably the extended period of time that this has been occurring for, it seems kind of unlikely it is a problem within the ISP's network......although given the traceroute result shown in the question, the path depth and total latency doesn't shine very well on your ISP. Generally speaking, any decent ISP should get you to any major/prominent web property (within the USA) in something [well] under 120ms...but I digress.
In the meantime going through a proxy server should allow you to access the sites so you at least have a workaround. 
An alternative might be to pick a very small mtu (and possibly work upwards from there), and while that might bring its own problems, it should make these sites reachable.
To me your traceroute and ping results are totally normal. The lack of reply at the end is normal, that is the last HOP that is sending ICMP max hop reached replies. tracepath is a utility which can be used to diagnose mtu problems which may help you. 
Using traceroute and ping to diagnose the problem as others have mentioned is very helpful, but it is far from a definite tool solution given the possibility/likelihood of ICMP blocking/filtering in various locations. And, because of this, except in the hands of a skilled analyst it is pretty hard to tell the difference between specific problems & firewalls messing with ICMP.
The solution to this problem for me (on linux) was to enable advanced router support in the kernel and the TCPMSS target support in the netfilter/core netfilter section of the kernel config. And then to tell iptables to force maximum segment size down:
You did not mention whether you are going through a proxy server. It might be interesting to see if your ISP is potentially transparently proxying you, a practice I consider very evil but I think its quite common. Maybe you could try http://tracetcp.sourceforge.net/usage_proxy.html and do a tcp trace to the hosts that are not working, that could be interesting.
The best way to rule out an MTU problem is to start by reducing the MTU of the Ethernet interface in one of the computers that is having the problem. See the procedure located here for MAC systems since you mentioned you have a MAC computer.
If you start lowering your interface MTU as the process describes in steps of say 100 bytes at a time and checking functionality starting from from 1400 down to 500 bytes.....if the problem suddenly goes away at one of the steps, then you definitely have a path MTU problem for sure. If dropping down to 500 as a minimum doesn't solve it, then it is not a path MTU problem and you can move on to investigating other possibilities (after you switch your MTU back up to where it started...which was probably 1500 bytes).
My guess would be that your router tries to be clever by adding a MSS TCP option, but in some cases messes up the TCP header. Does your router have any "MSS clamping" settings - if so, I would try disabling those settings. Otherwise I would suggest asking PlusNet support (showing them the tcpdump output).