I use a ticket system for both fix it now, and project based tasks.  For tasks that recur, and intermediate tasks I use Outlook.   
Good use of comprehensive documentation (wiki) on system configuration, network, etc that is always up to date (so I never have to research anything)
I started out using index cards stuck with a binder clip that I carried around everywhere. Each index card was a different GTD context. This is probably what kept me closest to the GTD principles. After that I used OmniFocus for a while, I even participated in the public beta and got a really cheap copy. But I found it too darn complicated. (and I just opened it last week and closed it again nearly as quickly just out of fright!) Plus I don't like that they're charging $25 for the iPhone version, as if the $70 for OmniFocus isn't outrageous already. After that, I used a plain text file that I kept open in vim all day long. Probably my best system so far, but it wasn't very portable. So I moved the text file to a wiki and had plans to use an extension in Firefox to allow me to open it in vim, but I used that far less than when I had vim open all the time.
Go to Manager-Tools  and find their podcasts on Calendar Management.  You cannot manage time, it does not respond well to attempts to speed it up, or slow it down, and there really are only so-many hours in the day.
The thing I liked most about GTD was how agnostic it was about your "system". It can be paper, electronic, anything. As long as it works, who cares?
The system I use is Getting Things Done, mentioned above. I also found the Time Management for System Administrators (also mentioned above) very valuable.
Now I'm using Things for Mac. So far, so good. It's very simple. Probably its best feature is the "Today" category where you put things you want to get done today. That's not very GTD, but it works for me. The biggest problem with Things is that it's far too easy to lose track of tasks. Is it listed under next? Scheduled? Someday? Projects? Why do next actions in projects not show up under areas of responsibility? There are a lot of shortcomings and I wish it had the ability to create your own custom views like in OmniFocus. But despite that I bought a license and will probably buy the iPod touch version soon. It's not perfect, but it's helping me stay organized which I guess is the only thing that really matters.
The Todo.txt Command Line Interface (CLI) -- Cross Platform, Futureproof, Works over SSH.  What more could you want?
Data Capture:  You need a way to capture requests, ideas, requirements, etc when you are not at your desk.  I went out and got a MoleSkin notebook,  its about 4"x6"  and Black, so it looks good enough to take into the board room.  I print my Outlook Calendar each monday, and fold it so it fits and slip it into the page where I'm at.  during the week, I'll update the paper copy and Outlook.