There are, indeed, graphical tools that will assist you working with remote UNIX and Linux systems (wsp was one; gvim may be another).
You are already using them: ssh, scp, wget and vim. Those are not pain. There might be some teething pains, while you figure out how powerful they are. But, to bring the Windows analogy back, I feel seriously hampered when I have to use a Windows box. For you it's the other way around. It's just what you are used to. So, give it some time and it'll come to you.
And a network file transfer equivalent? Plenty. scp, sftp, ftp, nfs, cifs / smb (Windows file sharing protocols), and then some.
Depends on what I am doing. Most of the things I do directly in the config files on the machine (for development and testing boxes) and then I push the file into a configuration channel on our Satellite server, after which I deploy the file to all servers directly (for production boxes). Really, vim is a treasure. That is, when you find out how to use it properly.
UNIX was designed with networking in mind - so the tools are designed for working over the network, not for looking pretty.  A UNIX server should never have that windowing environment (X11 usually) set up.
For administrator tasks I never, ever use an X environment. You do not need one, it'll only take up system resources and, for the most of the time, they're a hindrance instead of a help. Most GUI configuration tools (well, practically all, really) only offer a subset of the configuration option you can set in a configuration file with vim.
Remote admin of windows boxes is not trivial. Remote admin of unix boxes is because they were designed to be managed remotely and to be on a network. For windows it was a bolt on to a sytem that wasn't designed from scratch to live on a network.
Administering Windows systems has always been "heavy": that is, a complete windowing environment is necessary, which necessitates either being on-site or a network-heavy application like Remote Desktop or VNC.
The minimalist interface of SSH, wget, and vim is much more conducive to the network - vi was in fact designed to work on a 300baud modem line.
This is anecdotal but from experience at various companies, the server to sys admin ratio for linux boxes is much, much higher than for windows. Simply because automation on windows is not trivial and a gui will always be slower than scripting. Having said that, there are windows admins who can caress a windows infrastructure into being easy to manage, however these admins are very rare.
scp all the way and maybe some sftp, and I suggest you do too. Never, ever use FTP to move sensitive files (e.g. config files) over a public network. I do not use a mapped network because again, all I need is on the server. If you mean c files and not configuration files here, I usually use something like svn or git and then push my changes to the box.
Putting my configs under version control, was probably the smartest thing I have done. I use SSH based tools as often as possible to reduce the administrative footprint and attack surface.
The usual way of administering UNIX systems is to log into the machine and work on the machine itself.  There is no need to move files around just to edit them.  The only thing that one must remember is to make sure the configuration is good and to test it where possible.
All the tools you need are available by default in every linux distro. If you want a graphical login, go ahead and do so, it just wastes CPU and memory and will give you the same problems you have with windows. And as already said, for more than a handful of boxes you should consider puppet,chef, cfengine or one the many other tools available.
Sparse? What on earth do you mean? Excuse me for ranting, but dismissing ssh, vim and wget as painful is almost insulting. From your question I deduce you are mainly a programmer for your daytime job, so I kinda understand the question. But honestly, I would not hire a Linux admin who is not comfortable with any of the three tools you mentioned.
Managing a Linux box is no less trivial than managing a Windows box. It just takes some time to gain a decent skill set.