If you want to delve more in the game-dev aspect and don't want to be bothered with 3D coding you could consider looking into Source engine mods.
I guess it really depends on what exactly your goal is.  Are you trying to do a quick little game before you get to school?  or are you interested in really learning how to make games and become a "game programmer"?  If it's the former, then definitely check out some of the popular free/open source engines, but remember that some of them (like Ogre3d) are actually just rendering engines, and will help you get things on the screen, but won't help you do a whole lot else.  These rendering engines provide a whole bunch of more advanced rendering features that a small  "learning project" doesn't really need, but they add substantial complexity because of it.
Alternately, you could try making levels for a game like Half-Life 2, which has a well-developed modding community.  If that seems too intimidating, you could start playing with a game like Minecraft, which is partly designed around building simple 3D environments.
If you are more interested in becoming a game programmer and becoming good at it, I would recommend not using any of the popular engines and instead start writing your own.  It's going to be slow, ugly, and probably just plain bad (mine was), but you'll learn an immense amount.  Go download some samples for your graphics API of choice, read some tutorials, and start with the basics.  Get one object on screen, then multiple objects, then try and get them to collide with each other.  Add layers of abstraction, add features, rinse and repeat.  You'll learn something with every iteration and you'll accumulate far more knowledge than if you let someone else do the hard bits for you.  You'll also get a ton of great code samples and demo pieces to show potential employers (if you choose to go that route).
If you want to look into more isolated aspects of game dev, hmmm, then I guess you'd have to research subtopics and use an existing environment. Unity might work, it's not C++, but the concept translate well.
I recommend you grab Blender and the free version of Unity.  Blender will let you make 3D models (ugly or pretty) and Unity is a great development environment for simple 3D.  It isn't entirely beginner-friendly, but there are a bunch of great tutorials out there, and with some initiative you should be able to get started building stuff.
As an example, if you're just trying to learn the basics of 3d game programming you're probably going to be less interested in a having a robust material/shader system than you are having basic collision detection and response.
I'm not quite sure what you're looking for. If you want to master the 3d aspect but are comfortable with C++ you could take any DirectX SDK sample and start modifying it until it becomes something game-like. Set targets and set out to implement them. Take a sample that loads and shows a model, take a sample that reads the joypad and combine them so you can move the model around. Add in animation, sound, see if you can come up with some challenge and you have a first game.