So far this seems to be working really well for me.  The SSD makes the OS very responsive and the storage space and speed is also quite good.  I do intend to benchmark the disk array this weekend.
I have used Solaris, OpenSolaris and OpenIndiana for quite some time.  ZFS is one of the most attractive features in these OSs.  I have been very favorably impressed with ZFs and recently installed native ZFS on my new Ubuntu workstation.  The licensing requires that the user install it but it worked fine for me using the information found on the ZFS on Linux project.
I've been meaning to try it forever, because running a Raid-Z host with an NFS share sounds like what OpenSolaris was made for. But without having tried it, I can't speak to the advantages or disadvantages yet. Clearly you won't be able to mount it directly on Windows unless you also run Samba, and it might not be able to run both for the same array.  If I were to do it, I would not boot out of the same Raid-Z array which I'm sharing, so you'd need a minimum of 4 drives, and I'm thinking of using 6.
My new installation is a 64Gb SSD for the OS and my /home and 4 2TB drives configured as raidz.  I have ZFS filesets as directories under my home dir to avoid loading up the small SSD with files that I would prefer not be part of any OS upgrades.
I have a system that has a pair of 2TB drives in a ZFS mirror that crashed due to environmental reasons, when it came back up, it only took seconds for ZFS to correct the issues with drive. A standard RAID rebuild on 2TB drives takes a long time. I had another die because some of the internal fans died. This system had a 4 drive RAIDZ and it was able to recover all of the data loss in 5 minutes across a 2TB setup.
If you run FreeBSD with Samba and ZFS, you can combine the snapshots from the first answer with Recent Files (found in Vista and Windows 7) and then be able to older file versions using the windows GUI. See http://www.edplese.com/samba-with-zfs.html for details.
I am really impressed with ZFS.  It was designed and engineered to be the last word in filesystems and in my experience so far it is.    
Features of ZFS and RAID-Z look vary promising. Looks like it is a perfect FS for home NAS solutions, poor man's Drobo things and alike.
ZFS on a home NAS is great. I've have a FreeBSD server running ZFS for years (now upgraded to FreeBSD 8.2 with V15) and the recover aspects are one of the hidden gems. 