You might want to look at something like Mozy or Carbonite for off-site backup, since a flash drive isn't the best medium for a backup anyway, but if you must have a removable drive for storage, why not have a few flash drives that rotate in case of failure and get a ~500GB external hard drive to keep backups that are older than a couple of months?
In addition, being a double-entry accounting system means that initial growth of the data normally is very rapid, but then starts to level off a bit after you create the core accounts and the common supplier accounts.  I would expect your files to follow this and start to slow in growth.
I've had Quickbooks for 15 years, and my file size is 150 MB.  I do a full backup once a week, and only keep the last 3 backups (don't really even need that many).
I would also advise to try and use compression.  The file format for Quickbooks I don't believe to be too efficient.  Compressing the files prior to or during backup may save you lots of space.
The other answers explain the backup better, but my point is to tell you that the file won't increase in size as much as predicted.
Is there any value to keeping every single backup ever made, especially on the same media? And is this data actually going to grow linearly? I doubt that the data growth rate will climb at a steady rate for a single church.
2005 is so old, it's not well documented, but you may also have a Portable File option for it. The Portable File omits the search indexes (which make files grow rapidly), and if your 2005 has that option, you might consider it.
You can delete every backup except the last, if you wish, as every time you do File | Back Up Company | Local Backup | Local Backup it will do a complete backup. However, if a mistake is made in data entry, and especially in data editing, it can be useful to have more than the latest backup. 
Quickbooks like Quicken saves its data in only a few files.  Those files get changed during transactions and you will need to back them up again.  It isn't like a word processor where you are creating different files - these are the same files, just stuff gets appended into the file.  So, incremental backups which rely on there being new files added or some few files of many being changed, isn't an option.