If you do not have more than 4Gb of memory, it honestly does not matter what you pick. In practice, you will not notice the difference.
I can think of no advantage for using 64 bit operating systems on a system, virtual or real, with less than 4 gig of memory.
The biggest advantage to 64 bit is native addressing of large amounts of memory, and you obviously won't hit the 4 gig limit. Plus I've heard of some cases where 64 bit can be potentially slower for certain applications.
If you are trying to maximise capacity on a very low memory system (< 2gb), then run a 32-bit OS. Otherwise, run a 64-bit OS.
While I would personally probably opt to just slap in the 32 bit guest, it also depends on what you're going to do...if you're really concerned, you should probably install both versions (as a minimal Debian shouldn't eat a lot of install space) and test it with the configuration you're intending to use the VM for and see what you can do with benchmarking. With your memory being low there's no clear way to go one way or the other...so if you're concerned you'd have to actually try testing both. Create three partitions, install the OS 32 and OS 64 in partitions one and two, and use a data partition (okay, four partitions, since you'd have to have swap space most likely set up too).
However, if those aren't valid concerns, 32-bit is still a perfectly reasonable option.  They definitely make more efficient use of memory, and with open source software you don't have to worry about some application being ABI incompatible with something else (just rebuild it as you need).
If you're talking about installing a host, you should go 64 bit. It sounds like you're talking about a guest, though, and since you mention that rather small amount of memory, I think you'd be better off going with 32 bit for the guest.
I tend to standardise on 64-bit systems, just because it's the way of the future, a good percentage of the machines I run need 64-bit, and I'd prefer to have just one architecture the worry about for compatibility, compilation, etc.