You probably won't see any significant throughput change (maybe a few %) but what I would expect to see is a significantly lower CPU load and interrupt rate from the network interface driver since your NIC's will generally be handling only 1/6th the number of packets to carry the same amount of data. This may not be a huge deal for you but if you have multiple NIC's carrying iSCSI traffic it can add up to a significant chunk of CPU resources or a busy server. If you have smart NIC's with iSCSI\TCP offload the benefits will obviously be lower but overall the increased frame size still makes it easier for everything on the iSCSI network fabric so it would still be recommended.
The article is completely irrelevant to your concern. It talks about application traffic that your SQL Server sees. On the other hand, you have a question about storage connectivity - traffic that your server's iSCSI initiator sees. 
I would be surprised if was anything other than a help. Granted, I'm a Unix SA, not a DBA/Networking/Windows guy, but I expect it to do nothing but good (assuming it is supported end to end of course).
Second, I am yet to see a best practices or white paper or manual from a storage vendor that would NOT recommend "enable jumbo frames". 
I would expect that the DB is going to be reading and writing at least a page at a time, generally a DB page is the same size as an OS page (most RISC systems had 4K for 32 bit, and 8K for 64 bit, but I suspect that it is still a 4K for 64bit AMD64 systems). Sure, it theory, you could read and write single disk blocks (512 bytes), but I bet they don't. So with 4K vs 1.5K (normal ethernet), you can fulfill most requests with 1/3 the number of packets, which ought to be a win, possibly even a noticeable one.
The advice in the article you link to is very good and it explains the reasons why Jumbo frames aren't necessarily a good idea in general purpose LAN environments but he doesn't really discuss the nature of iSCSI network traffic itself and that does usually benefit from Jumbo frames as the disk IO traffic will be in relatively large blocks - 8kb if you haven't modified it. Some SQL experts might want to correct me on this but I think all database IO will be be in 8kb chunks. If the read\write block size is 8k then a single IO can fit in a single Jumbo frame (the protocol overhead is relatively low - < 100 bytes generally) rather than having to be split across six standard sized ones.
That said - I'd echo Brent Ozar's recommendation that you carry out some performance tests if at all possible. 