It's true there is little you can do when it comes to people not having the sense to look for a save button. Especially when it is a simple task they have done repeatedly in the past and should already know what do to based on past experiences. 
I've found that for some strange reason certain programs in Win 7 x64 amazingly enough sometimes load the dialog window onto the screen UNDER other windows, and not on top as modal.  It is somewhat madding.  One if these that I use that does this is what prints pdf documents.
Another option is to update or change your print to PDF software. I use a free software call Foxit PDF, I will paste a link below. I hope this helps you in your quest. Although I do agree, you also need to train your tech support staff to train the end user how to perform the simple tasks, like looking for a save button for example. Once the end users are better trained, they will become more productive and less of a drain on your department. Good Luck 
But perhaps I can offer some advice that might help. I have seen a similar problem in the past whereby a dialog box was hidden under other windows. I believe in order to fix the issue I updated the video drivers and rebooted the PC, afterwards the dialog box opened on top of the windows like it was supposed to. If you can get the dialog box to show up on top of the other windows, your end user might clue in, the next step they need to do is, "save"
Even when you've encountered this problem before, it can be a real PITA to go hunt for a hidden modal dialog box.
After I discovered it, there was no end to the uses I had for automating all those little, annoying, 'are you sure' dialogs, of which Windows developers are apparently so fond.
Ultimately, it's a UI problem shared between platform and application.  If users get confused by my product, it's a bug in the product.  The application could show an indicator in the main window saying [pending print dialog (Click here to Cancel)]. But this is not an option for the system administrator.
For windows, the [Windows]-M shortcut may help (show/hide desktop), but that's still part of user education, and Helpdesk training.
It will still take a little ingenuity to solve your problem, but I know that tool was a god-send for me when we had remote servers using a 3Com driver that occasionally assumed a user was present.  Nothing like a System-modal error dialog to put a quick stop to file sharing on the network.
You might get some mileage out of a product I used to use (before I had the opportunity and good sense to stop developing in a Windows environment.)  It was called "Push the Freakin' Button" and it was a rock-solid bit of freeware.  
However, I can imagine a looping script in PowerShell which gets run as a background job, which regularly checks for certain tasks on certain workstations, and for how long they have been active and possibly idle, and kills any such process.  But it's not a very good solution I don't think, because it might break other things.  :-( You know what is said about Engineers, that they don't solve problems but rather trade one problem for another.