I really think this holds minor value to a game (and sounds like a bike-shed problem), if the actual gameplay is not robust and appealing already, nobody will care what the level of realism of the rain is and if the gameplay is good, again, no one will notice the level of realism involved in the rain mechanic. For now, randomizing c for chance, (x, y) for position and i for intesity values and simply raining here and there, perhaps increasing the amount of rain during the winter seasons is quite sufficient.
The cloud idea seems superior to me, though it would probably be more CPU-intensive. You'd have to simulate (or approximate) even more variables to make this work, though - the clouds move with wind and atmospheric pressure, temperature, etc..
If you wanted to do the other idea, you could make a transitional area around the biome with a randomly interpolated amount of precipitation between one biome and the other, i.e., if it's raining in biome A, and drizzling in biome B, as you move from B to A add arbitrary small amounts of precipitation until it reaches the value in A and vice versa for the other direction.
Another option could be to have cloud objects move around the map, and have them pick up water while in biomes with high precipitation rates, and when reaching the max, they rain.
You could randomize a map with a voronoi diagram, picking rainy areas and arid ones. Then steal some precipitation statistics graph and mimic them with the rain in your game (i.e x rain during the winter and y rain during spring). 
Some of my thoughts on designing this system would be to have a weather object for each individual biome, and every time it rains (and the startup) it picks the next time it will rain based on the biomes precipitation rate. 
I'm making a roguelike game similar to dwarf fortress. So far, I have an average temperature map and average yearly precipitation map generated with simplex noise. Now, I'm trying to implement a weather system that seems realistic, as in it rains more often in biomes with higher precipitation rates, but still seems coherent.
One problem with this approach is that it would always rain within the exact edges of a biome, and I don't think it would look very realistic.
This seems like a good approach to me that could be very realistic, I would just have no idea how to program the movement for the clouds.