Does the application store information about the server (servername, etc.) in the registry/database/configuration files?  If so, you'll probably need to edit the registry/database/configuration files.  
Oh, and I would not copy \program files\your application wholesale, unless that's the only place it stores config files/user data.  Even so, I'd leave the binaries alone.
I'm interested to know how likely it is that the following steps will result in the application running on my new machine will mirror the application on my production machine.
For VMware, there is the AWS Management Portal for vCenter and in general you could look at the AWS Migration Service and VM Import.
Since we know no much about your application, I would suggest you ask your developers about app's PATHs and registry keys and data. 
That doesn't guarantee it'll work, because the application might have some other anti-tampering coding in it (I used to work with a license server that stored the MAC address in a hidden file to prevent you from moving it to a new server without proper licensing, for example).  
Where does the application store data and configuration information?  Does it store it in a database?  The registry?  Files on the hard drive?  All of the above?  You need to understand this in order to migrate all the user and configuration information.
Rather than hacking your application into a new installation, I would personally recommend migrating the server OS wholesale into AWS, and then cleaning up the OS and removing unwanted applications.
Once you would have the required information, deploy fresh AMI and install your application in AWS. By the way to relocate/migrate your application simply zip application data from PATHs on-prem VM and unzip them to corresponding PATHs on AWS AMI.
We don't really have enough information about your application to answer this question completely, IMHO, but....
Background: I have Windows application running in a Windows 2008 R2 VM in my on-prem datacenter. I need to migrate this server application to the cloud (AWS). I want the server application to retain all of the user information and configuration information. Due to security restrictions I am unable to image the on-prem VM and export it to AWS.
Will the directory paths stay the same (they should, otherwise you might end up editing the registry/database/configuration files/etc.).