If you just have a single machine, you would get cheap performance with greatly added risk. A single unclean accidental shutdown (button pressed or cable to UPS yanked by kid, etc) could pose risks and certainly takes a toll on your peace of mind.
The ZIL is a write-often, read-almost-never buffer. The only case in which the ZIL is read is if the system goes down hard (e.g. power loss, kernel panic, etc.). In such an instance, the ZIL is used to reconstruct writes that the user/application was assured are safely committed to disk, but actually weren't.
The purpose of the ZIL is to provide the assurances of synchronous writes without the overhead (and other problems) of actually doing synchronous writes.
Intel Optane presents an interesting case; while it doesn't technically have PLP, it also theoretically is just as safe without needing PLP. The reason goes back to why we need PLP in the first place; drives have internal caches and lie about synchronous writes to improve performance. As I understand it, Optane has no caching, so when ZFS does its synchronous writes to the ZIL (only then reporting back to the user/application that the sync is completed), the writes really are safely committed to the device.
It only affects performance for those special sync random writes... you did not state what the machine would be used for, but if I imagine typical home use, then it would be:
From a safety standpoint, it is critical that, once the ZIL SLOG reports that data has been written, it really has been written. However, non-PLP devices often use internal (to the hardware) caching and lie about this. Thus, if the system goes down suddenly, a non-PLP device is at risk of corrupting the ZIL, just as the in-RAM ZIL would be lost. Thus, in the event of a power failure, a non-PLP SLOG is at serious risk of offering no advantage over only keeping the ZIL in RAM.
Even normal disks would satisfy those constraints easily (as mirrors), SSDs would just blaze through it. Your machine will be idle most of the time and your money would be better invested in more storage or a better offsite backup system.
If not, then add a separate device. You can add and remove as many as you like (mirrored) without destroying the pool.
You can compare it with pool design. A single disk is cheap, but if something goes wrong you are screwed. Now you can either buy a better disk, or two cheap ones, or two better ones, or three cheap ones and so on... in the end you must calculate your risk and balance it with your budget. Extremes are bad in most cases (single cheap disk vs. 32-way-mirror of the best disks available), so healthy middle ground is often advised (which would be two-way-mirror for small and three-way-mirror for large deployments).
It depends on the device and the specific case... in general PLP is recommended because on a 5000$ storage array it does not pay to save 50$ when choosing inferior SSDs, because it is just not worth the tiny probability that something will go wrong. Especially as you don't need large SSDs, a few GB are plenty. But if one disk fails and the other does not, or does not fail at the same sectors (depends on disk/on-device-controller), you would be fine. Thing is, no one can guarantee it, so you try to add safety measures and reduce your risk.
OTOH, if the system goes down for other causes, a non-PLP ZIL will hopefully still finish writing before the system loses power (if it ever does; I'm not sure a soft reset is even noticed by the hardware) and so would still protect the pool. A cheap SSD is therefore better than RAM-only ZIL, but only for cases where the system goes down without losing power. In the event of a power loss, a non-PLP ZIL is about as dangerous as RAM-only ZIL, but it's also slower than RAM-only ZIL; all of the drawbacks of using an SLOG with PLP with only part of the advantages.
My suggestion: just try it out. Buy the minimal viable configuration (just your pool disks) and set it up, then use it and check if it is fast enough (my guess if you don't serve VMs directly off of it would be "yes").
The ZIL is intended to be a "safe" write buffer that records a log of pending writes, so that in the event of a failure (loss of power, kernel panic, etc.), writes are not lost. Without a separate ZIL device ("SLOG"), the ZIL is normally mirrored to the primary storage pool, which is of course slow. It also means twice as many writes, which for an SSD pool, is bad.
Thanks go to user121391 for the answer. I wanted to follow up on one point though in rather more detail than a comment would allow.
Optane is interesting (read: makes a really good choice for an SLOG) in some other ways. While it may not be fastest on paper, it has low latency, which I've seen reported as the most important factor in ZIL performance. The 900p also has absolutely stunning write endurance (5.1 PBW is about 3.5× the closest competitor I've seen, around 8× most "traditional" SSD's in its price range, and a whopping 24× compared to the 800P which is a third the price). Combine that with the way it tends to blow everything else out of the water in benchmarks designed to simulate the ZIL, and the choices really come down to those in my original question: a) 900P, b) RAM-only, or c) disable ZIL.
First things first: great post, well written and thoroughly researched! You have already found out many of the answers yourself, so I just add some thoughts to it.
I would only do this if you have a specialized application running on it that knows that it can't trust the storage completely - for example in a multi-mirror (other storage nodes) setup where periodic sync detects any errors in nodes that were down temporarily.
Actual synchronous writes are potentially slow (due to writing to the "slower" main storage pool) and less efficient due to not being able to wait and batch writes together. The former isn't as much of an issue with an SSD pool, but the latter can matter, especially if applications are doing something pathological such as writing a few bytes at a time to a file and then issuing a sync.
Here, I'm only concerned with why #2 is worse than any other option... More accurately, it is strictly worse than #4. (Except it isn't, but we'll get back to that.)
You should also evaluate why you want your specific all-SSD design. It will cost you more per GB and most likely is wasted for your needs (for details, see last paragraph of this answer). On the other hand, if your goal is silence and simplicity in a small form factor, it would be a viable alternative, in which case I would personally not invest in a separate log device because of cost (performance would be fine anyway).