Due to the nature of not having console access the final goal was the convert the existing root partition to LVM.
How can I change that partitions using only an ssh connection and possibly other remote server where to put some temporal data?
Considering the ext4 is not shrinkable the only way was to reuse the swap partition as temporary root. I also decided to set up the temporary root with LVM to be sure the process can work in the right way. 
It was OK for me at the first time so I repeated the whole procedure with creating a new volume group on top of the original root partition and finally I got the root at the right place using LVM.
He could setup an intermediate rescue system into the (previously disabled) swap partition (nerve wrecking work to do if you dont have a RAC in the machine) and work from there. Also, online resize tools exist for certain filesystems, and then shrinking the partition afterwards and rebooting is a case of KWYD but possible.
A quick update from my side. Context: today I got online a dedicated server installed with physical partition scheme instead of LVM. There were 3 partitions: 
Almost there, the last and let say the most unwanted part without console access was to modify the /boot/grub/grub.conf:
Once everything was there then the entry for the root filesystem in /media/etc/fstab had to be changed as well:
Just to be on the safe side: insmod lvm was added along with the dolvm parameter for the kernel and the root path was also changed to root=/dev/mapper/VolGroup00-tmproot. Important to use the /dev/mapper/ path at this time. As a safty deposit I also added the panic=10 parameter and didn't change the default boot entry in the header. Instead of that I went for a try with telling the grub to boot with the new setting only one time and in case of failure the original entry could work:
I have previously migrated my root partition "/" that was pointing to a disk partition "/dev/sda2" with 10G on centos 6 to a LV partition, the steps performed were the following :
I have a server with Debian that have 3 physical partitions covering all the disk: boot, root y swap. Now I want to replace that partitions with LVM partitions. I know how install Debian with LVM at beginning, but in this case I can't install the system at beginning because the provider gets me a server with remote access and the system installed in this way.