It's not clear what the gateway/router your ISP gave you looks like, i.e., physical ports, and IP address configuration.  They may be doing routing on the gateway, they may be doing NAT, too; or both, or neither.  So I can't speak to that very well.
You then will likely want a firewall somewhere, likely with NAT, for your private network.  That model switch does have some basic routing capabilites (layer 3 switch), but I believe it lacks even NAT capability, and certainly has nothing I would trust as a firewall.
Switches move Ethernet frames around; this is called layer 2, or the "data link" layer.  This layer knows nothing of IP addresses or routers.  (More recently, this is a "layer 2 switch".)
Conceptually, think of a managed switch (layer 2 switch) is a layer 2 device with an itty-bitty computer inside it.  The switch part moves frames aroumd; the computer is used for management, and is plugged into an internal switch port using an itty-bitty Ethernet cable.  (This is not a perfect analogy.)
If you have public, routable IP address on an Ethernet port on the gateway, as provisioned by your ISP, then you have a tiny corner of the Internet you can put whatever you want on.  That might well be something you put in one VLAN on the switch.
Wires move electricity around; this is called layer 1, or the "physical" layer.  This is stuff you can touch with your fingers.
So typically you would get another device to act as a firewall, and plug that into the switch.  You would put both the gateway/router and the firewall both on the same public/WAN/whatever VLAN, and assign the firewall a public IP address on that VLAN.
Nominally, switches (layer 2 switches) are completely unaware of the network/IP layer.  One only needs to assign an IP address to a switch (layer 2 switch) to manage it.  Cheaper switches are not managed, and will not have an IP address associated with them at all.
Very loosely speaking, you can think of Ethernet cables as roads, Ethernet frames as vehicles on those roads, and switches as intersections with traffic signals.  IP packets would be cargo inside the vehicles, and routers would be the shipping manifests.  Switches and frames (vehicles and roads and traffic lights) go together, but the cargo and the manifests are outside of the scope of the people designing the roads.  (This is not a perfect analogy.)
Then you would make another connection between the firewall and switch, for the segregated private/local/whatever VLAN.  This could be with a second cable and switch port, or, if the firewall supports it, you can put all the VLANs on one cable to the firewall (sometimes called "router on a stick").
Routers move IP packets around, this is called layer 3, or the "network" layer.  A gateway is another term for a router.  (More recently, "layer 3 switch" became another term for a router.  It gets confusing.)