There isn't a windows built-in for this as far as I know, but if you have multiple monitors, I strongly recommend that you install UltraMon. It has support for (among many other things) creating custom profiles for display configurations (enable/disable monitors, setup resolutions, refresh rates, layouts and such), and then you can hotkey those profiles or make shortcut icons to click or whatever other method you like for invoking them.
Depending on the Video card and driver you should be able to do this with your Graphics UI; I know for example you can with nVidea you can set/save profiles; monitors and settings along with hotkeys.
You will want to check first that you have the latest driver installed with nVidea you open up 'nview properties' or the 'nvidia control panel' but I prefer the properties UI for most functions; if you save a profile with the settings you wish then: "Enable nView option in the Windows desktop right-click menu" option which is found in the General section under User Interface tab.
I wish I could tell you how to do it, because I frequently seem to turn something on that does this for me when I don't want it.  if I hit the #1 key, it turns it on and then when I hit the #2 key, the active window goes from 1 to 2.  Or if I'm on the 2nd display, hitting the #1 key moves it over.  I want to turn this off as it is driving me crazy.  My window has changed every time I typed either of those numbers in this post.  Any suggestions would be greatly appreciate!  I'm on windows 7 with an nvidia card.  I just found out that hitting the @ sign also moved the window.  So does hitting the ! key.  
Windows key + Shift + Left key (or right key) if you only have 2 monitors it won't matter thou. If you have 3 or 4, then it will move the active window to the left (or right window)
This will allow you to right click your active desktop and select your profile from that menu making switching back and forth literally as easy as the click of a button... or your mouse in this case!
Please note these 'instructions' are based on my software version and experience you may have to tweak yours to have it function according to your needs; also nVidia has a tab aptly named "Hot Keys" which you should benefit from.