Many printers manage a counter of printed pages for handling the inaccurate "no more ink" indicator. It is possible for some printers to reset that counter by downloading a special firmware. Recipes are on Internet, but they are not as easily accessible as facebook.
I've been printing 99% black draft text documents for about a year. However, the printer was reporting that ALL the cartridge levels were going down.  What? how strange I thought.
Then I discovered that these levels were actually an estimate and the printer wasn't reporting a true ink level.
On the printer itself, press the settings button (on the right hand side next to the help button).  Select Tools.  Now select to print a printer diagnostics page.
So, Googling around I discovered this is actually a very common problem with many brands of printers.  It seems that the industry has decided to protect their investment in ink and make the cartridges expire so that refilling them will not work.
I just so happened to also select to a clean print heads as well.  One of these or both may be needed.  Once I did this, I found I was able to print normally even though the printer says that there is no ink.  Well that fixed it for me.
By the way, my long term solution to this problem has been to switch to monochrome laser printers for work and administrative print jobs and to photo lab for family pictures.
With dells printers, (and possibly lexmarks), its a matter of hitting the ok button on the printer when it says its empty, them saying ok when it says it will void your warranty, and ok again when it asks you if you really really want to print with an empty cart.
What happens when the estimate reaches zero?  I discovered the answer to this at just the wrong time.  It stops printing anything and just shoves out totally blank pages.
However, it seems there are some solutions to this problem.  I don't care too much to refill my cartridge I personally just want to use the ink that I paid lots of money for.  This is what I did for the HP CS5300 printer.