With BGP you peer directly via IP address and not by multicasted hellos so static IP addressing is preferred as both sides of the peering need to match as it requires a TCP handshake for the peering to establish.
If someone else in the internet advertises the same prefix via BGP, hopefully this does not happen as there is not much to do other than rely on backbone ISP filtering that will disregard the advertisement from other enterprises.  As long as you have the route advertised first, oldest route wins between multiple paths from the ISP's perspective.
If not, would i be able to do a peering with someone even if i use a standard DSL connection (with static ip address).
Looks like you are trying to hijack another persons traffic? Otherwise, peer with your ISP (even if its dsl), as long as they accept and announce your AS/network.
iBGP has a TTL of 255 so this can be peered across the enterprise within the same AS.  This is typical for enterprise remote site connections or internal BGP as the main routing protocol of the enterprise.
What i don't understand here that when i announce my AS to someone and i have for instance the ip 20.100.100.1 on my DSL link. If i now announce 30.100.100.0/24 to someone, he will start sending packages addressed to this subnet to my DSL ip address. But does my DSL provider not throw away those packages as the are addressed to someone else, or if they are addressed to me, how do i know where they were originally addressed to? 
You need to peer with your ISP, or you need to create a tunnel to the network with which you want to peer. ASes (Autonomous Systems) are, by definition, autonomous, so you will have no control over what the other AS will or will not send to you. All you can do is advertise some or all of your prefixes to the other AS, and use any of the prefixes the other AS advertises to you.
Remember that BGP is an application that merely advertises prefixes between peers and rides on top of IP/TCP port 179.  There already needs to be 'underlay' reachability between peers either by connected routes or other dynamic/static routing protocols.  
If i would like to do a BGP peering with someone do i need to have a direct connection to him? Meaning that we are in the same segment?
eBGP requires directly-connected peers as the TTL=1 for those hellos.  This can be overridden with the 'ebgp-multihop #' to set a different TTL.  eBGP is by definition between two different autonomous systems (AS).  This is typical for ISP connections
You are correct in that when you advertise a prefix to your ISP, the updates include your IP next-hop to point to your edge IP address.  This is how the internet routers will route back to you.