What operating system would be the most appropriate for sharing access to files and software by RDP to 15 users simultaneously?
"Every device that uses Windows Server Remote Desktop Services to remotely access Microsoft Office requires a Remote Desktop Services CAL, in addition to Windows Server CAL and a Microsoft Office license. Dedicate a Microsoft Office license for every desktop on or from which you plan to use or access Microsoft Office, even if that use is only occasional.
Also, take a look at the new Azure RemoteApp - also by the Remote Dekstop Services team at Microsoft: https://www.remoteapp.windowsazure.com/ . This allows you to run your programs from cloud VMs (same technology as on premise, in theory you just save on maintenance costs). It's in Public Preview now (so it's free) and the cloud deployment comes with a Windows Server 2012R2 + Office image. So, until this hits GA (global availability), you can get it for free.
Technically you can set up a Terminal Server (Win2k12: Remote Desktop Services) and install Office for all users. You would have to contact your Microsoft Reseller for licensing options (I have it seen being done legally, so it is possible). Keep in mind that you also need Client Access Licenses for the terminal server.
*side notes: there are limits on number of users that can connect (I believe 10 concurrent users), but this can be lifted by contacting Microsoft. Also, this allows you to possibly integrate with your existing AD deployment (if you have one) by using the hybrid mode. More docs here: http://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/documentation/services/remoteapp/
This link states that it would not be legal because a single-user license would be used by multiple users. But is it technically possible, and can we register a license for every user to keep it legal?
No, Office licenses cover desktops using office. If you remotely access Office you must have a license for each desktop doing so.
Is it possible to install Microsoft Office on a Windows server and using it simultaneously by several users connected by remote desktop connection?
As for your second question, you could either use Windows 2008 or Windows 2012. It wouldn't matter much. Clients can be either Windows 7 or 8.