Using a shared public cloud as user37899 has commented is not the ideal platform for this if it is a mission critical application and intensive operation.   The story of shared is not only are you not for certain where your processes are running, in addition your performance is impacted by other customers on that grid.  the storage is more than likely the shared resource on that particular grid which is causing your performance degradation.
Most likely (as noted you found a resolution with the second issue) these issues are configuration or otherwise based.  The EC2/EBS/whatever cloud technologies aren't at the root of this.  These are issues you'll have on any environment contrary to the answer received so far.
The Amazon x64 xLarge deployment should be properly spec'd however as mentioned the disk resources although carved out by their volume and raid config are still accessing from a shared pool.
I'd be interested in knowing a little more about what you have in place and some of the other performance counters and database architecture in place to help best serve with a appropriate response for resolving this matter. and although it sounds to me a better served solution would be to have at least your database layer on bare metal or in a private cloud utilizing its own dedicated hardware.
Also, just from an architectural perspective, have you thought about distributing this load among multiple EC2 instances and load balancing?  This is an option that should resolve some of these issues.  Also it sounds like, from what architecture you're discussing, that it may be better overall if you split between some slightly less powerful instances and distributed the work.  The other advantage is that if your site/services continue to grow, you're in a good position to expand horizontally instead of vertically, the later of course being limited.
first and foremost sorry that you are having serious issues with your site load and to my knowledge all of this should be outlined in the SLA policy on application availability and performance, you should be entitled to credits.
Also - Amazon does provide an SLA.  There are minor situations, albeit extremely rare that some resources might come into contention.  HOWEVER, it is unlikely considering your current usage.  I would continue to do diagnostic research on the various points of contention and also to speak with the technical teams at Amazon Web Services.  Also check out their forums as there are usually very knowledgeable people there.  You may be aware of the forums, but just in case - check em' out here:  https://forums.aws.amazon.com/index.jspa