If the device supports IPv6 you can use that. With IPv6 addresses can be generated based on the MAC address, then your problem would simply go away.
Key points: Check Range/Scope, Check Restrictions and add items only to Reservation if you want them on the network, restart your server (or if you can't, restart the service(don't reload)), re-associate the printer. 
If you are running a Linux Server, you need to modify the contents in your dhcp configuration file for the scope:
However, if you are using a home router, this should be simple by stating the IP Range you wish to use, by default, out-of-box-solutions will have this as standard:
If your DHCP server hasn't assigned an IP address, it has no knowledge that the IP address is in use. This is mitigated by setting up a DHCP "Reservation" - and that's what you need to do.
As others have said, if DHCP server is sophisticated enough it may check for address usage before handing out an address in the scope.  Really it depends on the specific implementation of the IP stack on each device involved.
Sometimes one will work for a while and then stop.  Some times the other may work for a while.  Or neither will work.  
Just don't assign a static IP, which is also in a DHCP pool. The only way it could work out well is if the DHCP server knows which MAC address the IP is reserved for.
There is no "prioritization" per se.  What will happen is that the two will intend to answer for the same ARP lookups and will behave unpredictably.  
If both devices check whether the IP is in use before assigning it, then whoever takes it first will keep it.
There are also several methods you can research online to avoid Rogue DHCP and MiTM attacks using a DHCP server. 
When you properly setup your DHCP server, you will have no conflicts, in which case you are receiving. You also have to set the maximum amount of clients you wish to distribute addresses to. In addition to the previous comment, you must also have a feasible subnet mask. i.e. Enabling a full 254 host address but assigning it a /27 (255.255.255.224) will only permit it to assign 30 hosts (excluding the broadcast and network address). 
Also make sure to have a look at the mistake of putting an address into a DHCP Restriction Pool. If it resides in a restriction pool (or on Home routers, MAC Filtering) then the DHCP Server will auto-decline/reject the DHCP Offer packet from being given to the association requesting client.
Go into the DHCP server and assign a reservation for that IP address, so that the server doesn't try to assign that IP address to another device.
As far as a potential DoS attack goes, it is possible to perform such an attack. Don't put attacker and victim on the same network segment. Separate them by putting a router or a switch with filtering capabilities between them.
You didn't tell us what software your DHCP server is running, so we can't include specific instructions on how to do that.
If neither device performs such check, then the network connection will become unstable for both devices, while they are both online. It is possible for a DHCP server to perform the check on behalf of the DHCP client, but don't count on it.
What I suggest you do is revise your scope and reservation list, expand it to allow more clients to avoid conflicts (my experience shows that conflicts or DHCP authentication rejections are due to a lack of available addresses or the MAC addresses is wrongly inserted) and double check the MAC addresses assigned. You can also use Wireshark and filter with "dhcp" to see if the server and associating client are sending DHCP Discover, DHCP Offer, DHCP Request, DHCP Accept (DORA) packets. Another thing is to check the ARP requests being sent as DHCP is a layer 3 service (IP) and relies on layer 2 services (ARP) to do its job.