The current version of SQLite has WAL (Write-Ahead Logging) so that reading and writing can proceed concurrently. So the traditional single writer limitation mentioned in the previous answers no longer exists. I haven't seen WAL in production yet so I cannot comment how well it scales.       
As Devrim stated, the SQLite site states around 100k users/day should be fine. A Trac system requires writes, so performance would probably be slower in that case
Using WAL or not, if your SQLite database is read only (or is batch updated) and it fits in RAM (your OS has enough spare RAM to keep it in buffers) it can scale very well on a production web application. I personally was very sceptic about its performance, scalability and robustness but now after nine months in production it has proven to run even the most complex parts of the system very well.
Unfortunately, I haven't got any figures for you about load capabilities, but a few comments about some of the performance-restricting factors:
Sqlite isn't a traditional client/server DB application.  It's essentially a library that's embedded within another application.  It's designed for single-user desktop applications.  You absolutely do not want to try to use it as some sort of standalone MySQL/PostgreSQL/MS-SQL replacement in a multiuser enviroment because the entire DB is locked on write.  You'll be dealing with contention issues on even a light load which will destroy performance.
Sqlite is great for embedding in applications, and that is what it is designed for, but it most certainly isn't "blazingly fast". I use it for several of my own applications, purely for the convenience of only having two files that can be copied to another machine to give a fully working application. Tests against MySQL, using the same structure, indexes, etc., shows Sqlite to be considerably slower, even for for small databases. I would expect the performance difference to grow as the database size grows, although I can't say for certain as I've only used it with databases of less than 100MB.