Have a look in a musical instrument store, specifically one that sells electric guitars. A lot of effects pedals are 9V powered and have both a battery and an external power socket. Since the people who buy those often have several, there are also looms/splitters available so one power supply can power half-a-dozen pedals. I know you wanted 5V, not 9V, so you'd have to modify or replace the actual power supply.
I suppose it would be easy enough to make: all you'd need would be a power supply with sufficient current output to power all the devices you want. Then solder together some cords in parallel that wire into the base. Tape or shrink-tube the exposed wiring and you're done.
You could also look in an electronics parts store (In Australia, I'd point you to Jaycar.) or one of those PC oddment stores that sell less common PC stuff, like POS-terminal keyboards and USB-SCSI adapters. They often advertise in magazines.
It should be pretty simple to get someone who knows how to use a soldering iron to make up a splitter loom, but the (slightly) more difficult bit would be get a 5VDC power supply capable of supplying sufficient current for all of the devices.
For the power supply add up the wattage rating on each of the warts and get a power supply that meets or, preferably, exceeds that total by at least 15% (so it doesn't run too hot). Also have some sort of mounting, so it is not sitting on the carpet, etc.
In a couple of areas we have multiple devices that all run on 5v and have multiple adapters with standard jacks, which annoyingly require multiple sockets and cables. 
Well, adaptor splitters don't exist, that's for sure. Unless you had one adaptor with a high current output (say, 5A), you wouldn't be able to supply enough power to multiple devices. 
For the loom ensure that the cable is figure-8 style power cable, not axial style signal cable - they have very different load carrying capabilities. Probably best to protect the common joins in a small box with strain reliefs (e.g. cable ties).