I do have a suggestion, though, if this is a bend that does not need to easily unbend: scotch tape some thin cardboard to the inside angle and bend that so the cable flexes with it along the outside without kinking.  I'm sure it should tolerate that.  I've certainly put some fairly tight U's into one fitting it inside a case.  But no creases or kinks.
Of course, that's just a gut feeling, and the guy in the video could be acting on the same thing.  You might well be able to carefully, intentionally, and gently bend it without damage.
I don't have a specific answer as to why not although it is just my gut feeling looking at them (I have a 24" one, and the regular 6-8" one) that they were probably not meant to be kinked.
At about 1:50 in this video he states to not make kinks in the cable, but he does not provide any reason for this.
I have seen videos of people folding/creasing these types of cables. (Source) But I do not know if this is okay to do with the RPi Camera's cable. Could this do harm to the cable and cause it to not work or be unreliable?
The reason I need to fold/crease it is because I have a project in which a Pi Zero is almost touching the walls of it's casing, so the cable only has about 0.5cm of space between the Pi and the wall.
Here's an image of the sort of thing I mean. This is a V2 camera module's cable getting squished under a RasPiO Pro HAT (but still working happily):
We often get this sort of question at picademy when people want to use a camera module with something like an Explorer HAT (which doesn't have a hole for the camera's ribbon cable, so it winds up getting very-nearly-folded as it exits the CSI port). The answer is it usually works fine.
However, how many times you can fold it back and forth before you break it ... well, that's down to your luck! In other words, with your situation (a case forcing the cable to make some uncomfortable turns), I wouldn't expect there's an issue as I assume the cable won't be repeatedly folded or bent, but if you're continually installing and uninstalling the camera, you might want to buy some spare cables!