Sorry I couldn't help out more than that and it seems this question is quite old but if it helps I'm glad to offer it.
If you live in the UK there's always the Citizen's Advice Bureau whom I believe you can contact with any issues like these and they'll point you in the right direction. I'd also disagree with others in that if you honestly want to make games, go for it, don't quit your job straight away but if you're making enough income off of a game I see no reason why you can't work on that full time.
Seriously, "sell it on the AppStore" is not going to fund your future. People moan and begrudge paying 69p for a game that might take you two years to make, and unless your game is something special I bet it already exists for free on the AppStore already.
3: I am unsure of the advantages and disadvantages of sole trade vs company, but in my country it seems very simple to set up a company and you only need to do a small amount of extra work each year, somewhere around 30 minutes. I imagine the UK is similar to mine, whereas the US has some whacked-out tax system that might be rather complex to use.
1: To have exclusive rights to that name(in your country) you will need to register your company with the government. While I suppose you could use it without registering your company, it would hold no legal authority. In my country(New Zealand), you do this at the Companies register with a small one time fee. I assume it's the same or very similar in all developed countries.
I think you're going about this backwards and possibly haven't done enough research into the feasibility of "going indie". Try this before quitting your job...
2: I think copyright is automatic, though at least in the US you can get copyright for your game by applying for it even though it isn't required.
4: If you start a company, I imagine it would be better to have a bank account attached to that instead of having it in your own name, although I am not certain it would matter too much either way early on.