Unless there's a really good reason not to do so, pay a visit to Microsoft Update on all those machines and get them onto SP3 with all the patches to bring them up to date.
The best way to keep computers off the internet is not to provide any connection to the internet. But these days that provides no protection against viruses/malware - which have to be a very big concern on a set up like this. There is apparently some internet connectivity - which implies that you need some sort of access control.
Get some Antivirus on them.  If you're a school you may not have it setup right now, but you should be able to get stupidly cheap educational pricing on all manner of products particularly from Microsoft.
Moshe - you seem to have been asked to just make it all work - with no details of what "working" means nor any thought of the implications.
2) mediate all internet access via an access control system - could be done using the authentication system above - or a standalone authentication 
I have been in this business a long time, and "XP Gold" is a marketing term Microsoft uses when they released XP to the oems. Nobody else uses it. 
4) setup a system for network imaging of each client - e.g. Norton Ghost - but there are open-source tools available - and regularly write back the original image to ensure the desktops are clean.
Internet access I'm a little unclear on what you actually want - if the intention is to keep the computers off the internet regardless of who is logged on then you could just not bother setting a default gateway (local network subnet access only), or if you want to control who can access the internet i.e. teachers yes, kids no, you'd need some form of software on the computers or at the gateway (in between your network and the router).
I will agree with TomTom that you don't seem to have the skills to handle this job. Please use the Google to do some research first. If you have a specific question, please ask.     
It's been a while since I set up a Microsoft based network, but Using Linux, Squid, GoSA I'd reckon on a 2xdual cpu, 4Gb ram, 5Gb/client for imaging + required network storage - say 5x500Gb drives as RAID5 - approx 1400 UKP (although if you cut a few corners should be possible for less than 1k)
If this is a private school, and your helping them is fulfilling some service commitment in lieu of payment, you're going to earn that compulsory donation!
Similarly for the network storage. Its easy to plug-in a NAS - but how do you manage permissions - are you just planning on allowing every body to create/change/delete anything? How can you grant 'per-user' access when you've got no server available to identify what a user is?
There is a ton of questions that must be answered before anyone can suggest anything. Is this network on a Windows Domain? Different subnets? How are user accounts handled?  Why does this have to be an external HDD? Storage and backup requirements? 
This could be accomadated for up to 200 clients on a single server - which also provides your network storage.
What servers do you have (make/model/spec) and what software is installed?  If you have decent hardware I would look to make use of it instead of an "external hard drive" - not sure what you actually mean by that tbh as you'd still have to connect it to something acting as a server to make it available.