I guess you could "hack" Ethernet into doing subnets and routing, but you might as well engineer a protocol that doesn't rely on the low level details and assumptions of Ethernet, and that's why we have IP.
Even if your computer has an IP address, it still needs a MAC address to find other machines on the same network (especially the router/gateway to the rest of the network/internet), since every layer is using underlying layers. On the page mentioned earlier you can find some nice diagrams explaining the protocol suite in detail.
The IP protocol provides the foundation to support the notion of subnets and routing.  This means IP doesn't assume your destination is in the same network - if it's not, your traffic needs to be forwarded through an intermediary device such as a router.  IP has TTL/Hop Limit fields and such that support this.
There isn't anything physically stopping you from designing network which has just IP address for L2 and L3. Then 'ethernet switch' would learn SIP address of incoming packets and flood or forward towards DIP address.
Now you could have ran same ethernet switches and migrated your network in between from IPX to IPv4 to IPv6, without touching your LAN at all.
However this network would only ever support IP, when next-generation of IPvX comes, it would not work, as the 'ethernet switch' couldn't support that protocol. You also couldn't run various other protocols, like IPX and AppleTalk, or some new protocol you're developing and testing in your home.
MAC addresses and IP addresses operate on different layers of the internet protocol suite. MAC addresses are used to identify machines within the same broadcast network on layer 2, while IP addresses are used on layer 3 to identify machines throughout different networks.
Abstraction layers increase development speed and encourage innovation, as you don't need to rebuild whole house to change a window.
Ethernet assumes that the destination MAC is directly reachable when data is shipped out of its interface.  Ethernet was originally designed when the most common way to connect computers in a network was through a physical bus topology.  Even though almost all wired Ethernet traffic is switched now, logically it still works like a bus topology.  So the underlying assumption with Ethernet is that the node with the destination MAC is physically on the same network.  There is no such assumption with IP.
MAC address represents the hardware ones its assembled it is constant and diffrent systems in our network made by diffrent vendors have very diiffrent range of mac addrees so that they are difficult to arrange as a network.but using ip addresss we can arrnge the devices in our network in arange that is simultaneous addresses.also we can not send our mac addrees to outside networks