If you have to allow unauthenticated / untrustworthy devices, but want to limit the damage rogues can cause, don't allow them onto a shared LAN. Automatically quarantine unauthenticated devices each onto their own single-device VLAN and impose careful egress filtering on each such VLAN so they can't cause problems for others. Could be more trouble than it's worth, but there are probably enterprise class products that make it easy. 
This is based on recognising the MAC address and allocating the predefined address from its table. All the warning is saying is that if you spoof a different MAC address, the DHCP server will not see your actual address, so it cannot make the match to the entry in its table and you will get a random address from the pool.
You are confusing address reservation with address allocation. In the latter case the address is unavailable to other connecting devices until the device with the allocated address disconnects, when the address is released to the DHCP pool and becomes available again for other devices.
The premise of an Ethernet or Wi-Fi LAN is that it is a safe place. Only trusted devices should be allowed to connect. Trying to run a LAN without that premise is fraught with problems as soon as a semi knowledgeable, semi malicious user (or piece of malware) shows up. Require 802.1X authentication on your LAN and only let trusted people/devices connect. 
You are misreading the warning. The term address reservation is a way to allocate the same, fixed IP address every time a device requests a connection from the DHCP server.
There is a time-out applied (the lease time) before an allocated address is released, so that temporary network problems do not result in constantly-changing IP addresses.
Yes, a rogue device on your Ethernet or Wi-Fi LAN could take up all your DHCP leases and even use ARP to make all IP addresses on the network (even ones outside of the DHCP pool) seem occupied. That's just the tip of the iceberg. Bad guys can do all kinds of stuff to cause problems for LAN owners and fellow users. 