I am a little confused do you have 3 DC or 2 ether way can any users in any site log on with there domain creds? is the bad DC the one holding all of the FSMO roles?
This is Not Good.  Computer account passwords only have a lifetime of 30 days by default, so your 3 month old restore means that your computer accounts are all out of whack.  This explains at least some of the symptoms you have been seeing.
Before you re-promote the failing DC, solve your replication issues between the other DCs. If necessary, demote one of them so that you end up with only one DC holding all the FSMO roles.
You don't have connectivity problems. Rather, you broke the rules re: tombstones by performing what had to be an authoritative restore of a backup that was much, much too old. Now you're getting RID pool allocation issues.
The tombstone lifetime is the time deleted items are kept, once a server has been offline or a backup is restored from a time before this the rest of the domain will refuse to replicate to it.
It goes w/o saying that you need to get your backups in order before you do anything else. Don't overwrite any old backups, either, until this is squared away. You might need them.
First, a point of terminology: there are no "primary servers" in Active Directory. The "PDC Emulator" FSMO role holder relates to time sync, NT 4.0 compatibility, and some specific user password validation behaviours. The AD database on the PDC Emulator FSMO role holder isn't special otherwise and it's some magic "primary" copy.
Some good general info on the backup and restore procedure here I recommend you read before proceeding: clicky.
Your mistake was restoring the backup of the failed DC since you had other DCs out there. The proper strategy, as other posters have pointed out, would've been to seize the FSMO roles held by the failed DC to a working DC, perform a metadata cleanup to remove the failed DC from the directory, then bring up a new machine named the same as the failed DC. (If the failed DC was doing other things-- file and print sharing, etc, then you'd be stuck rebuilding that, too. That's one more reason why Microsoft doesn't recommend using DC's for other roles...)
The best scenario is if you have a good recent backup of one of your other DCs (and by recent I mean within the last week).  Even one from the other site will do.  Shutdown the just restored DC, forcibly remove it from the domain using NTDSUTIL (to make sure it doesn't replicate off any badness during a graceful demotion), unplug it from the network, and reinstall Windows as a precaution to ensure that you don't accidentally bring it back on.  Then restore the other DC from the good backup and sieze the FSMO roles if required.  Finally rejoin the bad DC from scratch (dcpromo, "new domain controller in an existing domain", etc).  Let everything replicate and you should be good.
the quick answer would be to try gracefully demoting the BAD DC and provisioning a new DC for that site.
I'd transfer the FSMO roles away from the malfunctioning DC and then demote it back to being a member server computer. If it won't demote cleanly, seize the FSMO roles to another DC, forcibly demote the malfunctioning DC, perform a metadata cleanup, and reinstall the OS on the malfunctioning DC (you can keep any data files / folders intact on it while you do that, but you'll have to reinstall any apps).
I've got half a mind to be worried that your RID pool master has gone "back in time" and might start issuing RIDs that were already issued. Having never seen the source code to AD, I don't know if it has any mechanism to "detect" when the RID pool master has been rolled back in time or not. I recall a Customer issue that smacked of such a problem (restored an old RID pool master backup, found that when they created new user accounts in the future existing user accounts would "disapper" from the AD), so it's possible.