- It sends very small amount of packets. By default, one packet every second. Since TCP protocol tolerates packets loss (it can operate very well is half packets are lost - it's normal), it's absolutely unclear if ping's "30% packet loss" killing connection or if it's absolutely normal.
That being said, you probably have the "tracepath" command installed on your machine; it's similar to traceroute but uses neither TCP or ICMP, but UDP. For TCP there are various utilities out there, you can try hping.
That being said, you can ping with TCP, but there are several caveats. The first is to just send the initial packet in a TCP connection, which will elicit a response from a server with an open port, but will be seen as a connection attempt. Ideally you could use the "echo" service (TCP port 7) ... but actually you can't because it's now disabled by default everywhere. Anyway, if you can get someone to enable it for you on the machine you want to test, a program could use that to check the round-about time for packets inside a TCP connection. 
- It uses ICMP. Many ISP has different shapers for ICMP and TCP traffic, so 'ping' will show 10ms latency, but TCP connections will experience 1000ms+.
So, is it any alternative for ping that use TCP connection instead of ICMP and checks internet connection quality?
TCP cannot "tolerate" 50% packet loss. It will simply grind to a halt, for a simple reason: it adapts its transmission speed based on the loss of packets. When packets are lost, they are understood to indicate congestion. If you drop 50% of packets (say, with a random drop firewall rule) regardless of traffic, it will see an ever decreasing bandwidth availability.
ICMP packets are generally delivered slower (if there is a difference at all), because most networks deprioritise them, especially ping packets.
Furthermore I doubt ISPs shape ICMP vs TCP. Some might do, as there are some really stupid people out there, but it doesn't make much sense to do so. Most will shape the whole connection, or it will "shape itself" because of congestion. In either cases packets are typically dropped randomly.
It's a common task to check network 'quality' - latency, number of dropped packets etc. But 'ping' has a number of drawbacks:
Generally, if you are seeing such divergent results from ICMP and TCP responses, the issue is either an overloaded server or specific TCP shaping at a firewall along the way.