I found another interesting product from SanDisk and wondering all I want is a bigger version of this. Bigger i mean like 2TB or 4TB. They only do 64GB at the moment. (but even that, would i have the problem of keep switching wireless connection - one for home WIFI and one for the storage?)
There is also a possibility to configure them to work together (on the same network), so all the devices can see each other (and the shared USB), no matter which router they are connected to. For this, you will have to configure your new router to use the same IP address space as your current one and either disable DHCP server or configure it in accordance to current router / network.
To solve the problem of having internet connection while connected to your own router, you will have to connect the 2 routers together (e.g. via UTP cable). By default, this should create two separate networks so the devices on your House router shouldn't see your own private network that is created by your new router. The internet should still work on your new network also, without much extra configuration.
I believe there must be a neater solution for my problem. I believe my problem is a common and I hope someone can give me good advice. My budget is up to 250£ for 2 to 4 TB storage. Thanks.
I would get a WiFi router with Ethernet ports and USB port. You can get these and it will allow you to connect USB HDD to it and then setup sharing. Now all the computers connected to this WiFi router should have access to external HDD.
So how can i solve my problem. Do i buy a wireless router for myself and WD My Cloud and would that solves my problem. If I do that, do I need to keep switching wireless connection whenever i want internet access?
I started googling yesterday and thought WD My Cloud seems pretty good. Before I make an impulse purchase, i read around more about the product and I found out it needs to connect to wireless router. That is a deal breaker for me. I live in a shared house and I simply don't have access to my wireless router. THE END. (even smart phones now-a-days can create wireless hotspot and i expected a product like this will have built in wireless router). 
I am not really interested in other dropbox like features that WD MY CLOUD offers. I don't want to expose my files to the Internet at all when WD claims to have high security and encryption features.
The problem I am trying to solve here is I want to have access to all my files in my external hard drive (i have a USB external hard drive 4TB) from all my devices while I am at home. I have a desktop, a laptop, a tablet and a phone. Especially when I am using my laptop on my bed, i don't like a usb cable connecting to the external hard drive hanging from my laptop. I don't want to connect the tablet to my computer and copy a movie in  before i can watch it. 