Now I noticed that the Default Domain Policy has overwritten the "Logon as a Service" setting on EVERY domain machine (Exchange, SQL Server, PC and more...), so the older settings e.g. (MSSQL$SQLEXPRESS, IIS APPPOOL.NET 4.5) where overwritten globally and didn't show up now.
Once you have the GPOs setup, run gpupdate /force on each server, then reboot it. Confirm that all services start as expected. Repeat until all your servers are done. It's painful the first time, but things are less fragile and more secure going forward. 
You can determine the list of accounts that are needed by looking at the Services list on each computer (sort by account name).  
I added the "NT SERVICE\ALL SERVICES" to "Logon as a Service" in the Default Domain Policy (Computer Configuration > Windows Settings > Security Settings > Local Policies > User Rights Assignments > Logon as a Service) and everything was working and the WSUS was installed successfully.
I applied a 'User Rights Assignment' to 'Log on as a Service' on the domain GPO, and noticed that the local policy does not merge with the domain policy. So on the local computer 'NT SERVICE\ALL SERVICES' was replaced by the setting from the domain policy.
The logon as a service right is something that you want to apply as narrowly as possible (eg per machine). Otherwise, you end up granting permissions on machines that don't need it (security hole), or your break apps when services don't start. 
The best practice is to let the default policy untouched and to add as many as policies on top of it. You can define a policy over time without linking it, this way it won't be applied. When you need to deploy a policy, you can link it to a subset of test machines to test the impact.
The policies are processed and applied in order: Local Group Policy object -> Site -> Domain -> Organizational units. Policies are merged unless conflicting, in that case the precedence is Organizational units > Domain > Site > Local Group Policy. If multiple policies are applied to the same object they will be applied in the order they are listed in the GPMC, with the latter winning out.
After a bit of troubleshooting and searching I found a solution on the internet where it said that I should change some settings in the Default Domain Policy which I did, here is the link for interest: 
My recommendation would be to put Default Domain policy back to the Microsoft default (which is blank I believe). 
Some months ago I was installing a WSUS Server on a W2k12 R2 in a domain environment and the installation was failing because a service wasn't able to logon after the Post-Installation routine. 
Policies are applied in a non-destructive order: if you unlink the offending policy, you will undo the immediate effect (i.e. the settings you applied). Keep in mind that you won't be able any side effect caused by your settings.
I know it's an old question, but the last answer/comments are wrong (at least for Windows 7 and Server 2012).
I would create GPOs to define login as a service each of your servers that have service accounts. Use security or WMI filtering to target those GPOs to just the servers that need it. 