I'm going to make a wild statement and say that this will be a horrible experience. Installing XP on a modern machine is going to painful because one the hardware is totally different from what XP was designed for 10 years ago, and secondly, XP won't have the drivers written for said hardware.
If you can run an extra hard drive, unplug the win 7 hard drive, install win xp on the second hard drive, plug the first and use F8 key during boot to pick the drive you want to boot from.
Since Windows 7 has excellent support for XP mode, and if you have Windows 7 Professional or better, it's free to download and use, I have to go against the grain here and say keep what you have and use XP mode for a much better experience.
Quite a few new laptops preinstalled with Windows 7 are 64bit machines. 64bit XP will run, but it had terrible support for hardware and trying to find drivers for things will be a pain. Video card, webcams, wireless networking, USB3 support, all of those may or may not end up working.
There are lots of different ways to update your system, including a complete format followed by an install of XP (be careful of driver issues and any data will be lost). You could perhaps also look at some kind of dual boot scenario and then you can keep your windows 7 install.
What I would probably do though is upgrade to Windows 7 Ultimate as this has Windows XP mode. That should solve your compatibility issues with least effort. Upgrade can be done online and is pretty quick.
http://www.pronetworks.org/forums/install-windows-xp-in-dual-boot-with-pre-installed-windows-7-t104890.html
If you stil have a laptop that is 64bit, most XP disks are 32bit, and that's going to physically limit you from the ammount of memory that can be used with your machine. Many new macines now-a-days comes with at least 4gigs of memory, and can easily be upgraded to 8 because of the 64bit hardware. You can install the 32bit OS on the machine, deal with the hardware issues and end up limiting yourself to less memory than what's installed on the laptop.
You can - But you will have to repair the boot manager from the Windows 7 disc. The reason why is XP will install it's own (older) version, and XP's boot manager can not boot to win 7. Repairing using the Win 7 disc will re-install Win7's boot manager, which can start XP. 