What you can do is either set a static IP on the printer, so that the address never changes, or you can take an old machine and set up an internal DNS server on it.
So, to get your PC to see your PRINTER using a name, you will need to modify the settings in your internal (DNSB) DNS server.
If you don't run a dedicated DNS server and your router is a standard consumer grade router, you probably are not running DNS at all, contrary to what others have said. Your computers are probably finding each other by NETBIOS name, which will work, but is much less reliable than DNS.
This is one of those questions I'm a bit embarrassed to ask, suspecting that there's a small (but very important) gap in what I've taught myself about networks over the last couple years.  Basically, I've got a Xerox 1600n plugged into the network, and it has no problem getting an IP, but so far, I've only been able to get it printing by using IPP & the IP address, which means it has to be re-installed on machines if that address changes.
Are you able to set a hostname for it in its web interface? A lot of printers will let you do this, for the exact reason you are looking for. (Assuming it has one)
Typically, the computers on the network will use an internal DNS server to resolve addresses. This internal DNS server (DNSB) typically runs on the router, if it is not a dedicated machine. Any address that is not resolved at the internal router is resolved at a higher level DNS, typically your ISP DNS server (DNSA). 
I'd like to either make it discoverable to both macs & pcs in the simplest possible way, so that it'll magically pop up when my coworkers want to add a printer, or give it an internal name that'll resolve to the current IP address, whatever it is, so people can add xerox_1600n instead of 192.168.X.X.  My sense is that there are probably 12 different ways I could do this, so I'm looking for advice about the different ways this could be done, and the reasons one might choose one over the other.  Any ideas?