Google disclaims a policy in the Chrome documentation. It essentially says Chrome doesn't gather any data besides what typing into the search field at google.com would provide Google with. While this does constitute a privacy risk, unless your IT blocks all access to Google, the argument doesn't hold water. (And is likely based on jumping to conclusions from skimming sensationalist headlines.)
It is possible IT does not want to support your browser. I am a sysadmin and I tell my outside sales to always use IE because it is easier to troubleshoot issues when everyone is on the same browser. We use a ssl vpn called netilla that has to connect through a browser. Plus from an IT standpoint you want to keep everything as standard as possible: same browsers, OS, versions, PC's ETC. It is a real pain to keep up with what each user decides they want to use on any given day. It looks like google does collect some anonymous details like sites visited and for how long but it seems like it is very mundane stuff that you would expect Google to collect anyway. Here is an article about what google collects in general (it includes chrome) and what they generally do with this information. Even if they did get data off your intranet unless you are a direct competitor what is the worst they could do with that data? Not to mention I'm sure there are users in your company that have some form of malware on their PC attempting to collect data for malicious reasons.  
Chrome and Chromium also collect additional data, the extent of which is mentioned in a blog post by the developers.
If you log into Gmail through any browser - and stay logged in, and then continue to browse in other windows in the same browser - Google can track your browsing - but if you log out Google can't track you. As well if you have an Android phone and you use the native browser that comes with the phone and you have a Gmail account with that phone I'm certain it's the same - Google will track your browsing with that phone (that's why Google is making Android free to all the phone manufacturers).
That said, I haven't tried watching Chrome with wireshark to verify what is actually sent to Google servers, so trust the above as much as you trust Google to keep their word to begin with.