Click on "Choose a Model" and select your computer from the list. Then select the Windows XP drop down box when the page loads. I suggest downloading ALL of these drivers and putting them on a flash drive or CD before installing Windows XP. You may want to consider renaming the downloads to things you will recognize, such as chipset.exe, videocard.exe, network.exe, etc.
If none of the above will work for you, back up your data from Vista, then you can try dual booting XP and Vista. 
Frankly however, in your situation i would backup your data and do a clean install of xp, this should work absolutely fine.
I've never had a problem with vista however, especially with the "run in XP mode" option i doubt you'll run into any real problems.
You could consider running XP under a virtual machine, if your machine can support and run it adequetly.
Before anything else, go to the Dell Support site.  Look to see if they have the XP drivers for your computer - otherwise you will have a much tougher time.  If there isn't driver support, you will need to get the info from Vista as to what devices you have and you will need to check with the manufacturer's website to see if they have XP drivers.
Downgrading from Vista to XP on a Dell computer couldn't be easier. Unlike some manufacturers (cough couch HP) that do not provide Windows XP drivers for their Vista computers, Dell has continued to provide XP drivers for all of their equipment.
I have done this many times with Dell computers without a problem. Make sure to install the chipset drivers first, reboot the computer, and then proceed to install the rest of the drivers. If this is an AMD based computer, make sure to install the drivers for your processor. (You may have to check amd.com for drivers as Dell may not provide them.) This is required for certain x64 AMD processors, otherwise the cores get screwed up with XP systems and your computer bogs down. (Note: I know I just said x64 processors - that doesn't mean you have to be running an x64 operating system. The problem exists on x32 Windows XP).