Strictly speaking there is no reason to have the '.' specified, though it should prevent your browser from trying other combinations like 'to.yourdomain.com' first, and speed up the resolution of the address. It might also confuse browsers, as there is no dot, but Safari at least seems to work ok with it.
If you use different root servers, you will wind up with a different view of what exists on the internet.  All the local resolutions I did were against my local system which is using "dnscache" which goes directly to the root servers.  Many other resolving DNS servers will ask another local DNS server instead of asking the root servers.
So, all you need to do is convince whoever runs the TLD for a country or organization to put in an address record for .zone instead of just google.zone and you're golden.  
These root level domain servers have a list of "top level" domains which map roughly to old abstractions of how researchers in the 80s thought the internet would be used and countries, and a top level domain for "infrastructure".  Each of these top level domains has a bunch of name servers that have lists of actual zones in that domain, so a request for maps.google.com first goes to a root level server which passes out a list of name servers that know about .com, and when asked, one of those knows about which name server has records for google.com, and one of those knows the specific record for www.google.com.
The "Root" zone is simply a zone named ".".  At the moment, that zone has a bunch of name servers.  The addresses of these name servers are distributed as a text file.  This text file or something similar is manually entered into many typical recursive name servers.
Normally these top-levels would not have IP addresses assigned via a standard A record, but there is nothing to say that the same could not be done to .uk, .com, .eu, etc.
I don't know if this follow ICANN rules but it's just a matter of configuring the DNS for the DNS of a whole country TLD.
Any DNS zone can have any DNS record for that zone itself (in a bind configuration file, this record is labeled with an @).  Actually -- let me ask this -- can the root zone have an @ to describe itself?  IE can @ have an address record?  I don't see why it couldn't.  that would be a cool address to have.  "http://./"
They own www.to, so www.www.to points to the same URL. The browser changes it to www.to on the request.
Placing a "." at the end of a name tells your local resolver that the name you have entered a "fully qualified" domain name, meaning it is exactly and only the name you wish to look up.  Often, we use unqualified or otherwise ambiguous names such as "www" to mean "www.of.the.place.I.work" where your local DNS resolver has "of.the.place.I.work" as the "dns domain" or "search domain".
Basically, someone has managed to convince the owners of the ccTLD 'to.' (Tonga?) to assign the A record to their own IP address. Quite a coup in the strange old world of URL shorteners.