I think a site-to-site IPsec tunnel might be overkill for what you're asking to do. They're usually used to connect two networks together.
Also, if you don't control the firewall or if you are not allowed to use VPN connections to the company network, you should not try to circumvent it. That could be possible by establish some kind of connection from the "EntryMachine" to a third machine having a public IP. Creating such a backdoor would probably be against the company policy. Definitely it would make the internal network more vulnerable as it bypasses all the firewall and intrusion prevention controls.
Either bring the network to the users with some kind of VPN, or bring the users to the network with some kind of virtual desktop / remote desktop. Whatever you do, this extending your network edge should be designed and approved as part of your security posture.
do your best in describing to network-admins that modern software-development practices DO require access to services that need to be shared among the team (issue/tracker; build-servers; test-servers; CI/CD platforms; etc.), enhancing the concept that those services should be tightly binded to the development team and, as such, decoupled from any other company network/services. Obviously I'm assuming that your developers do NOT act, directly, on "production systems" and that you already have in place a proper development chain, whose first stage are made exactly by the mentioned development servers/services (as such, completely decoupled from "production"). The final "goal" is to have such systems "confined" inside a proper/dedicated network-segment so that such network could be granted VPN reachability.
You can't have the VPN server on your "EntryMachine" inside the firewall/NAT. Instead, you should use the firewall/router/UTM as your VPN server.
If during the various discussions you'll be told about any kind of "security policy" that effectively "prevent" the required modification of VPN-service/policy:
keep in mind that "ICT security" is a key-component in almost every business. Anyway, its application is not a general "yes" or "no": depending on the company, on the business and on lots of other factors, "ICT security" can be applied (by network and system admins) along a "soft"<=>"hard" scale, with lots of points in-between. So, if posed in front of a "red-flag" raised for generic security concerns:
You say "I want to provide remote work solution to devs on my team" but it seems that network-management is NOT under your direct control, as well as you are UNABLE to directly expose "your" services to the Internet (in other words: you cannot have YOUR VM directly exposed on the Internet). From the other side, your personal-computers/workstations DO have full Internet access.
If you setup you're own DNS server in your office, then you wouldn't need to modify your hosts file. You'll just have to modify your network settings to point to the DNS server in your office.
Question your assumptions about what a VPN experience is like. In a Microsoft environment, Direct Access is fairly invisible to the user and works over whatever Internet connection they have.
I can clearly see a sort of "protocol mismatch" between you (the "developer guy") and network-admins (the "network-guy"): you (both) are not speaking the same language, and simply don't understand each other. This is an easy thing to fix:
Define with users the minimum applications to make remote access useful. A developer can work with a git repository offline, but if they need to interact with the issues tracker, test servers, email, and phone, that requires connectivity.
In this scenario you would need an openvpn server that is installed in your office, which has access to both the internet and the office network, but you'd lock access to that server so that incoming/outgoing connections (apart from the openvpn connection port) are blocked. You should probably leave port 22 open to the server for connections coming from within the office network.
Anyway, you said: "Our support has proposed a VPN solution (I think) that allow managers to have access to mails and directories but this is 15% of a developper needs"
I'm going to stop here. As I said, those are only "hints" to help you reaching the goal to negotiate a proper access to the existing VPN-service
If the above is correct (if not, please "comment"), your scenario is quite complex and a detailed discussion surely require much more space than what's taken by this answer. Anyway, as you seem to be interested in "pointers" ("...thanks for any pointers..."), here follow my suggestions.
At work we've used Openvpn to create a private vpn network so we can work from home but connect to the office network. Everyone could either have their own vpn profile, or you can create a generic profile that requires personal credentials (IPA credentials for example).