There are test servers on the Internet you can test with; search for "public Iperf server" to find those. But keep in mind that the figure you will see is not necessarily the maximum achievable bandwidth for your Wi-fi connection, merely the maximum achievable bandwidth on the slowest part of the network path, which could be at the server end, somewhere within your Internet Service Provider's network, or somewhere else along the network path between your system and the destination system. A better test would be to install the software on two systems that share your Wi-fi network.
Alternatively, you can test with websites out on the Internet that provide speed testing capabilities. But again, the number you will see for the maximum bandwidth is limited by the slowest part of the network path, e.g. Speedtest or other bandwidth testing sites.  You should see your Wi-Fi utilization go up when you run such tests, but it won't necessarily be 100%, if your Wi-fi connection speed is faster than some other part of the network path, which is likely, which is why a test like an iperf test between two systems connected to your Wi-Fi router will give you a better idea of what the maximum bandwidth is you can achieve for a system connected to your Wi-Fi router. 
A network interface will normally use only a small percentage of the available network bandwidth at any given time. If you want to see the maximum bandwidth you can achieve on the interface then you need to run a test that will attempt to use all of the available bandwidth.  A common network tool for doing so is Iperf, which is available for many different operating systems. If you install the software on a system and run it in "client" mode, you will need to test it with the same software running on another system where it runs in "server" mode. 
If you are just looking at your network utilization at an instant in time when not much may be happening over that network connection a usage of 0.01% isn't indicating a network problem, only telling you that there isn't much network activity on that interface at the instant you checked the utilization.