As was mentioned. Create an internal and external view within your 'local master' server. It will inevitably be quite a bit of work to get built initially, however maintaining it further down the road will be far easier, especially as the 'external view' (godaddy hosted) will not be changed frequently, or at all.
And if there is certain key bits of info you need me to copy/paste from my named config's just let me know.
Now this is where the problem comes in. From inside the network, we cannot access our website (http://mydomain.com or http://www.mydomain.com) that is hosted on GoDaddy. I thought simply changing the mydomain.com A Record on our DNS servers to point to the IP address that GoDaddy is hosting the website on would suffice. But our browsers are not finding it. The IP is pingable though.
Use a subdomain for your internal DNS and host that on site.  For example internal.mydomain.com.  bigserver would be bigserver.internal.mydomain.com
Recently, in order to save money and avoid downtime hassles, we've switched to using GoDaddy to host our website. We have also opted to use GoDaddy's nameservers.
We still need to host the nameservers for internal use however. That way Bob can ssh to one of our servers using the address bigserver or bigserver.mydomain.com.
If not, then you've either cached a response, have not reloaded the zone or have not edited correctly.
As I just mentioned our website was also internally hosted. When anyone on the internet wanted to visit our website: http://www.mydomain.com, they would be viewing the website that was hosted on our server in our server room.
With these changes, we have gotten rid of our internal web server, cause its no longer needed. We have also shut down external access to our DNS servers, since anyone on the internet attempting to access anything.mydomain.com is going to be connecting to GoDaddy's nameservers for that info.
I'm sure there is something I'm missing with regard to named. I am far from a bind/named expert. I can trip and stumble my way through it but thats about it. Any help would be greatly appreciated.
These were servers that were physically in our server room, accessible to the internet. Anyone who made requests to whatever.mydomain.com, would get their DNS info from these servers and then they could connect to the proper IP address, be it our SFTP/SSH server, our VPN server, our internally hosted website, etc...