Personally, I'd recommend VMWare ESXi; for a single host it's exactly the same as ESX, but it's free; it doesn't give you clustering or centralized management, but if you have a single host to run, this doesn't matter a lot. I'd recommend it over Hyper-V for three main reasons:
Putting them all on the same host negates all this. You don't get redundancy (if the host fails, you loose them all). Load balacing is moot (you're taking resources from the other DCs, so where's the point), and because they're all in the same physical location you don't get a local POP for outside offices either.
We do this, and we've never had a problem. You should never combine these roles in the one logical OS, but breaking up the one server should be fine, especially if they're not in high demand roles.
About the "two domain controllers" issues: if you have resources for the VMs, having two DCs is always better than one. Sure, you will still have a single point of failure (the host), but with two DCs you will be able to withstand a software failure on of one of them, which can always happen, and you will also be able to reboot each of them (patch management anyone?) without taking the whole network down.
There's no software reasons not to do this that I'm aware of, but I'd be wary of installing both domain controllers on the same physical iron. If something disastrous occurs with the physical machine you lose your whole AD.
If you have only a single physical server available and hardware resources are not scarce, it's a lot better to use it as a virtual machine host and create many VMs to properly separate your roles; Exchange doesn't really love to be on a DC (especially if it's your only one), and going virtual will allow you to create other VMs in order to do things that would really fight each other on a single server. If f.e. you will need a database server, a web server, a firewall, an anti-virus server and a WSUS server, all of them would have a lot of troubles coexisting on the same server, while they would happily run on separate VMs if the host has enough resources for them.
That said, it's a bit strange to have more than one DC on the same physical host. The point of multiple DCs are:
Apart from that though, go for it. VMWare is nice, especially with vSphere, but for one host it's not worth it (especially if you look at the price of VMWare)