Most memory eating PC games can to some extend be attributed to lazy programmers, there really ain't a lot one can do with more memory, except not care as much about filling it up.
That isn't to say there is no optimization in PC games, but it is in different areas than consoles, and in general due to the wide range of supported hardware, it is less effective.
There ain't a big clunky operating system running alongside games, so unlike Windows developers can actually utilize all the memory, you easily have more "room" on a PS3 than on an XP machine with 512 MB of system memory. Knowing the exact hardware specifications means that it is easier to go to the limit.
In addition to what others have pointed out here, I'd like to say that the consoles have very little overhead when it comes to memory (XBox 360 only reserves ~32 MB of RAM for system use, the rest of the 512 MB is for the game). Once you figure out what is already used by the OS and background apps on the majority of consumer PCs, you will realize there isn't too much spare RAM available.
Obviously they want them to be cheap to make. As for the PS3 specifically, memory prices were very high at it's release, but they dropped soon after.
As @AttackingHobo said, the memory is very fast and expensive. Also, you must take into account that these consoles launched years ago, when memory and hardware prices were higher. 
Another factor that goes into making consoles very performant on what appears to be very limited resources, is that since every console is identical, we as developers can take advantage of platform specific optimizations. On a PC you can't do that as much, and thus you are required to have a beefer PC so it can brute-force its way through a similar unoptimized task.
While the console memory is generally fast I doubt that it is a lot more expensive, it is to a great extent the development of the technology that cost, the production itself is probably not a lot more expensive. So when Sony and Microsoft make or purchase a big pile of fast memory it doesn't get a lot more expensive than slower memory would have been.
If the amount of memory was higher on console launch, they either would have to raise the price or take an even larger loss per console sold.
Luckily modern OS's have paging systems for their RAM so we generally don't need to worry about memory usage, but even on a PC game it would be a good idea to stick to a limit of 256 to 512 MB of memory so you don't start thrashing the paged memory and ruin game performance.