did you change any dns settings internal that would make this happen? any network infrastructure changes?
Are you seeing anything amiss in the event logs on the Exchange Server computer? That is the absolute first place to look.
Expand the "Configuration" container in the left pane, the "CN=Configuration,..." sub-node, the "CN=Services" container, and the "CN=Microsoft Exchange". In that "CN=Microsoft Exchange" container you'll find your Exchange organization as a "CN=Organization Name Here" node.
To formulate the command-line for the DSACLS command you're going to need to know the distinguished name of your Exchange organiation. The easiest way to do this is to install the "Windows Support Tools" from the W2K3 CD, in the "SUPPORT" folder. After you've got that installed, start "ADSIEDIT.MSC" from Start / Run.
Perhaps an obvious question, since you say it was working y'day, but: The client computers are joined to the domain and the users are logging-on with domain accounts and not local accounts-- correct?
I'm having a really hard time finding a doc from Microsoft that describes the default top-of-the-organization permissions for Exchange 2003! It would probably be easiest if you dumped a copy of the ACL using the DSACLS command and added that as an edit to your question. 
any chance your users are being directed by dns to go back out to the web and back in through rpc over http through your gateway? i guess a way you can check is by doing userid@domain.local (or whatever your internal domain is) and the password being their AD password.
Also check for any cached credentials in Control Panel | User Accounts | Advanced | Manage Passwords.
i just saw that you indicated in another comment that there is no external or internal network so comment above would probably not apply.
Close up ADSIEDIT. Click Start / Run and enter the following command, pasting in the "distinuguiedName" value you copied inside the double-quotation marks (leaving the double-quotation marks in the command):
Since your "Domain Admins" can access their mailboxes without problems this doesn't point to a database mounting problem. Has somebody been playing around with permissions in the Active Directory? Start by querying everybody who would have access to do such a thing (Enterprise Admins, Domain Admins). 
Bring up the properties for your organization, scroll down to the "distinguisedName" attribute, highlight it and click "Edit", and copy the contents of the "Value" text-box (making no changes!). 
When passwords expire this happens - it's unlikely if it's all of your users but ask a couple to reset them and see if it changes anything.
I'd examine the default permissions on the Exchange organization by turning on the "Security" tab in Exchange System Manager (create a REG_DWORD value called "ShowSecurityPage" in the key "HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Exchange\ExAdmin").