UAC is not really a security boundary as there are several ways for applications to circumvent it. That's why you should normally run as a standard user with normal rights where elevation isn't possible without providing additional credentials - just as before UAC was introduced.
If you don't want to disable UAC, you could try just disabling UIPI (User Interface Privilege Isolation).
There's a tendancy to complain about the intrusive aspects of user access control, but security always comes at a price. I must admit that I turn UAC off on servers that are rarely logged into, because I trust myself not to do anything stupid. I do leave UAC on for terminal servers, and I'm more than happy to put up with the minor hassles this entails.
Editing system files isn't suppose to be a click, drag and drop thing - at least not as I see it. Also there is not much problem disabling UAC for administrative sessions either, you should only do administrative work on the server anyway (sans terminal servers or whatnot) so why bother with UAC when the only thing you want to do requires elevation any way?
I think the problem is that when you run programs as administrator they are still running in the same window station as all your other programs. Explorer will only allow itself to be run once in any window station, i.e. one instance of explorer.exe, so you cannot run an elevated copy of Explorer.
At a guess I would say that the code in charge of marshalling the details required for drag-n-drop is running in an un-elevated context along with the rest of the UI (including Explorer) so it is not going to be able to access to pipe information between the two processes.
Open regedit and go to: HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Policies\System
Edit the copy in your configuration database and then copy the new version to your host overwriting the old one (or have the config db do all the work for you if it can) ;)
In my opinion, UAC introduced a more friendly runas dialog with some intelligence, it shouldn't be used to run as administrator and feel safe about it.