While it does not allow you to share the documents as Mendeley (already cited) it is wonderful to tag all your files and arrange all the pdf files in your computer. Besides, it offers a handful of services for automatically creating lists of references, searches, etc.
Note that normally all the papers, theses, books you see published by Isabelle power-users are done with the system itself.
With ps-tricks you create code for your own images so that they can be reused in the papers for the conferences, then for the talks, then for the extended version of the journal paper and so on. The rendering is perfect and the final quality is impeccable. There is no trouble when using ps-tricks with LaTeX but when using pdflatex you have to go through a number of workaroundds (see a previous post in the TeX area of the stackexchange under the paragraph "How to use PSTricks in pdfLaTeX?")
All my work is done on Mac OS X using Aquamacs Emacs with AUCTeX and refTeX for LaTeX editing as well as org-mode for TODO lists, tracking things, making agendas, and simple spreadsheet stuff. Cocoaspell for spell checking (integrates nicely into all Mac applications including Aquamacs since version 22, great if you have to check more than one language). On the LaTeX side it's mostly TikZ/PGF for graphics (although I'm looking for an alternative that makes some of the things I do regularly easier). For managing documents and keeping in sync there's git (and egg or magit for using git with Emacs). BibDesk for managing papers and associated PDFs. Presentation slides either using LaTeX Beamer or Apple Keynote. Keynote is also great for presenting PDF slides after converting the free tool PDFtoKeynote. Especially useful for presenting slides you don't know too well you can customize the preview screen with next slide, timer, etc. Highly recommended. Having a WebDAV volume for quickly moving files from A to B is very useful, too, especially if only have access to either A or B at one time.
Finally, using SVN is a must to me as well! In addition to the suggestions made in the page pointed to by Suresh Venkat, I do highly recommend having a look at the permissions mechanisms of SVN. One of the most useful features of SVN is that it is feasible to allow different people different sorts of accesses. Since I have a unique svn server for all my papers this feature allows me to cooperate with different co-authors simultaneously just providing them access to specific points of my repository. For more details check out the public O'really manual
For creating figures I love using Asymptote. It's a graph programming language (C++-style syntax) that produces pdf's (or ps). With a few lines can generate very complex graphs, and the whole compilation process can be easily managed with a Makefile (so with a single "make" you can compile a simulator, generate the data, from the data obtain a plot and include the plot in the final pdf...).