On the other hand, the term "data analysis" is used in radically different ways in different sectors.  Data analysts in established companies (especially 10+ years ago) might use Excel and Tableau to plot earning trends over time and do some simple financial modeling.  The data analysts in a biology lab might be a couple postdocs and grad students who have taught themselves enough R or Python to run statistical tests and generate plots.  Web- or app-based companies might have data analysts building predictive machine learning models of audience/consumer behavior, in order to find ways to marginally increase sales or ad revenue.  Data journalists at news media outlets might focus more on building visualizations and interactives of data aggregates and summaries using D3, with little or no deep quantitative analysis (i.e., using neither classical statistics nor predictive models).  
The term "machine learning" comes out of a fairly coherent academic/research community, centered in computer science but with moderately strong connections to a few other fields, such as statistics, and weaker connections to fields like genomics.  For one example, take a look at the research areas of the faculty in Carnegie Mellon's Machine Learning Department.  For another example, all three of the authors of Elements of Statistical Learning — which seems to be one of the standard textbooks in machine learning — are statisticians. 
Because "data analysis" has different aims and goals in different sectors — and is done by people with very different kinds of formal training — different kinds of "data analysts" will use different software tools and different methods.  Deep learning and other predictive models will be appropriate for some kinds of data analysis (web- and app-based companies; certain data-cleaning purposes in scientific research) but irrelevant for others (data journalism).  
The following is how I understand the distinction; it's based on my own experience engaging with various communities over the last few years, as I've been teaching myself statistics/data science/ML.  