As for my current setup, I have a Synology NAS with crashplan installed on there and it automatically backs up the data with the folders I selected to crashplan. This is a perfect setup for me, but it can be costly. The NAS itself is RAID 5, providing with redundancy. 
First thing I would do is get a NAS. I currently own a Synology NAS and the software is great on it. With the software it currently has on there, you can backup to other devices as well. 
Third, as is stated before, you can get a Synology NAS and attached an external device on some of the models they sell. This really wouldn't matter unless you take that hard drive off site, to say a safety deposit box. Maybe backup a months worth of data and just keep switching out the hard drives some where off site.
Second thing is you can store data online in the cloud. You have to be careful about what you store though. I personally only store stuff I want to keep, but isn't anything too personal. Problem with this too, is upload speed. It took me about 30 days to upload about 230GB of stuff. You can always send a hard drive for them to upload your data though for a cost of course. I currently use Crashplan, which is pretty cheap and exactly what I need.
Hard disks are compact, hold a lot of data, get bigger all the time, readily available, don't require special equipment to use, cheap, and getting cheaper (flooding in Thailand not withstanding). 
I keep all my data one one drive; a second USB drive holds regular automated backups; a third identical USB drive sits offsite (at work, or in a safe deposit box is good). Monthly I carry the current backup drive to the offsite location, and bring the other drive back. 
I store my files in a HD and in the cloud. I'm currently using Google Docs because is cheaper than Amazon and DropBox.
My recommendation is to put everything onto a hard drive, then back that drive up using cloud software.  My personal recommendation would be CrashPlanbecause that's what I use at home, it's affordable, lets you back up any file you want, anywhere you want, and even lets you backup to local media too.  It does periodic checks to verify the integrity of your backup and has some other nice features.  You can set it up with a local encryption key, so even if CrashPlan received (and complied with) a subpoena, no one would be able to read your data.  I have nearly 3TB backed up with them and so far have loved paying the $5 a month charge for this rather nice service.  I in no way benefit from "selling" them here, I'm just a very satisfied customer.  Maybe you should take a look at their service.
This is hard to answer because it depends how important your data is to you and how much you are willing to spend. I'll tell you my setup, which for me works well.
I paid about $1200 or so for the NAS and hard drives. But that's cheap compared to trying to recover data. I find that CDs/DVDs are kind of unreliable and shouldn't be used for long term backup. A flash drive would probably be better than a CD or DVD.
First, think about the ways you might lose your data, and decide which you want to protect against. Some examples:
All storage media decay; the only way to be sure that your data is good is to use it. As part of that monthly routine, I pick an arbitrary file and restore if from my backup.
If you do all of this, you should be ok in case of hardware failure or some kind of natural disaster like a fire.