If you do this with perseverance and consequence, you will end up in a situation where the helpdesk calls get less and you have more time for other stuff (until your bosses decide that you are overstaffed and cut your team size down).
You know how much time you (and your team mates) have, so from there it is a simple exercise. Cut the allowance for helpdesk stuff out from the available time, which gives you remaining time. The boss provides the priorities and from there you can see how long it takes to implement the rest. 
And now to the question of balancing helpdesk vs. infrastructure projects: In any engineering discipline (and IT is no different to that) there is well proven motto: Fix your problems twice.
In pretty much any IT dept that manages a network, you have to find a way to balance time between Helpdesk calls (frequent, simple things like 'I cant print') and longer term infrastructure projects (re-organising mailboxes, upgrading software and hardware, adding new capabilities to the networks and systems, keeping up with security and disaster recovery planning, etc).
As I said this are just some random tips. Much more incredible helpful tips you will get from Tim Limoncelli and his books The Practice of System and Network Administration and Time Management for System Administrators. Especially the first one is a must-read.
I think the best way to solve this and, unfortunately the most unlikely to actually be possible, is to hiring additional support techs. Especially easy things like "I can't print" is good stuff for entry level positions. 
In that situation you need to sit down with your boss and present him with a list of all the stuff that needs/wants doing, complete with priorities from your point of view. This must include an allowance to deal with helpdesk issues (which you should arrive at by measuring how much time you are actually spending on it).
Then you fix the underlying root cause of the problem. That makes sure the symptoms don't come back.
Part of this has to come from management - how is the position seen in the company. Is the sysadmin seen as someone who "manages the network, including fixing client issues" or is the sysadmin seen as "the guy who fixes our computers".
As pointed out by others, the answer to this depends on how IT is viewed within the company. In most companies IT is seen as a necessary evil, and consequently understaffed. 
The problem seems to be that the Helpdesk part of that equation will always grow to fill all available time if you let it. But if you don't look after the infrastructure then everyone suffers.
By the sounds of it, the picture will be extremely ugly. Which is exactly what you want, because that is then the time to say to your boss: "Well, if you want me to deliver more, then I need more resources. Of course, if IT cannot have more resources, then we will follow your priorities, which means that the entire bottom of the list never gets done.". 
If the culture of the place and the expectations of the business managers don't include the sysadmin having the time to do these projects then you'll struggle to persuade the users to give you the time.
First you fix the problem at hand, which is generally a symptom of something else being wrong. This makes sure the user is happy and goes away.