A better solution in the long term is to create only one volume per VHD. That way when you need to expand a drive in the future, you don't run in to this problem. To do that now you would need to shut down the VM and use third-party tools to copy the second volume out into its own VHD. You might run in to a problem here if you convert to a dynamic disk, since most of these utilities don't support dynamic disks.
Converting to a dynamic disc will probably not be a problem. What you are doing is a pretty simple operation. People run in to problem with dynamic disks in more complicated scenarios.
A better immediate solution might be to enable dedupe on the volume, and kick off an optimization immediately. This might require a reboot (if dedupe is not already installed) but a quick reboot might be a good compromise between using a dynamic disk and not rebooting, and the extended downtime needed to implement "one volume per VHD". Plus you don't run the risk of not being able to implement "one volume per VHD" because you converted to a dynamic disk.
If it's possible to create another small partition at the end of the disk (possibly by creating other small partitions to block and force the creation of your destination at the end, highest tracks) and move your existing volume there, then you can delete the prior partitions and create one larger contiguous partition.
Is it true that there is a risk in converting it to dynamic? And if so, how can I proceed? The volume needs urgent expanding.
The other way is to simply buy a new disk and move it to there, once it's moved you can use your old disk as a secondary drive. Needless to say purchasing another identical drive has its uses too, if it's not a too out of date model.
I expanded a disk for a VM in Hyper-V. Now I need to expand the volume but it has no contiguous space and it's a basic disk. Windows suggests to convert it to a dynamic disk but I heard that it might not be such a good idea to convert it to a dynamic disk. 
If you have disk optimization software that won't trash your partitions it can be used on the last partition to gain the space to create a new temporary in the highest tracks to move to.