This is a standard problem.  You have both media deterioration and "environment deterioration" to worry about.  By the latter I mean the ability to find an operating environment that can read the data, even if the medium is sound.  
Disclaimer: I don't work for Amazon, but do store some of my personal data with them. I have never had a problem.
I've often thought that someone should offer an archival media service, based on writing to photo film (which we know how to make last 100 years), but I've never seen any such offerings (and photo film is going the way of the dodo anyway).  Laser engraving on a metal surface would be good, I suppose.
CD or DVD will PROBABLY last 10 years, and the ability to read it will PROBABLY exist in 10 years, but I wouldn't put any money on either in 20 years.  USB drives I'm fundamentally suspicious of, and there's no great assurance that USB will even exist in 10 years.
Keep the backup offline when not being used: That USB HD you keep plugged in all the time isn't much good if a virus wipes all your storage out, you fat finger a delete command, or a power surge blows everything that's plugged in.
Migrate data and data formats as necessary: Hunting down the hardware to connect a 30 MB MFM HD is hard enough.  Having it work is a small miracle.  Now you've got to come up with a way to uncompress the files that are in some long lost boutique archive format.  (Or maybe an ancient version of PK-ZIP, in which case you're lucky.)  And now, extracting the usable data from that file format.  If you're lucky it's from a major program, like WordStar, or Lotus 1-2-3.  If you're unlucky, it's from some software company whose products have long since been lost in the mists of time.
Make sure your backups work: Test restores.  It doesn't do you much good to have a backup if the media fails, or the reader fails, or you can't connect it to anything.
Have multiple backups in different places: If your house burns down, gets blown away by a tornado, or drowned in a flood, you don't want all your backups in the same house as your data.  Distribute geographically based upon your actual needs.  Your parents (or kids, depending on your/their ages) or siblings or other relatives in a nearby town (or the next state) may be good enough.  Never underestimate the bandwidth of a 2 TB HD sent via FedEx.  :-)  Spending $$$$ to store everything in datacenters on multiple contents is probably foolish though -- if a major disaster destroys everything in a 50 mile radius of your house, were your photos that important?  Maybe some are, along with financial info, or other highly valuable data, in which case it makes sense to keep some of that data stored somewhere very remote at a reasonable cost.
Store it on Amazon S3 in an easily-readable format (or if necessary store the specification for the format too). I believe that Amazon S3 offers 11 nines of data durability (ie 99.999999999% of data is not lost).
Keep it as part of your live data: You don't know if that CD/Tape/HD/USB Stick/Whatever sitting on the shelf still works unless you test it regularly.  As your archives grow, the amount of time you spend testing media increases.  However, you can be notified immediately if a HD in a RAID array goes south, giving you time to recover before you have to restore from backup.
If you're worried about bit-rot, keep parity data of some kind (like par2, or rar w/ recovery records, etc.).
Someone suggested (programmable) ROM, but it depends on what type.  Some are fundamentally the same technology as USB drives and subject to flipped bits over time.  A fusible link ROM (do they still exist?) is probably safest, but even they are subject to shorting out from "fingers" of metal crystallizing in the gaps (though not so much when not powered).  Plus you'd still have to come up with some sort or reader.  (The ROMs used in mass-produced games are mask-programmed and quite reliable, but it'll cost you thousands to produce just one unit that way.)
The only problem is that you need a reliable way to store the access tokens/URLs required to allow you to find/modify the data. Depending on the nature of the information you are storing, you may want to make this public (ie in the public domain and therefore known and shared by lots of people) or email them to yourself and trusted associates, or print them out/engrave it, etc. The good thing is that this information is very small and therefore cheap to 'immortalize'.
Punched cards will last 100 years, but good luck finding a reader, or even a way to punch them.  Punched paper tape is a little better -- so long as you don't use oiled paper tape (which disintegrates in 5-10 years) the tape is good for maybe 50 years (longer for mylar) and you can jury-rig a viable reader.  The problem is finding a punch and the tape.