Alternatively to heat-sinks (or in conjunction with) you may also try outputting PWM power at what ever frequency provides adequate stability in your circuit. The non-constant power output will produce less power and heat over time. 
Add higher valued capacitor(s) on C1, to prevent hysteresis, and (or) various parallel capacitors to C2, to filter out noise.
Instead, I would suggest using a switching regulator, such as the TI lm2596 instead - it will require a couple more components, but will be much more efficient. 
then read the rest of the application notes for fun. You can also put the Voltage regulators in parallel for increased current (max per package type TO-220 = 1A)
This will accept voltages from 7-35 in the input, so despite it showing 12 as the input, it will work fine for 24 as well, provided your Cin can handle 24v (assuming you need it - depending on your power supply, you may not even need the input capacitor).
I'm wondering how I could do this? I've seen these and wondering if they would achieve what i want (I realise I might have to build in a regulation circuit for the pi with this)
While the suggested 7805 will work, it is also incredibly wasteful - assuming your Pi takes 1A input at 5V, the remaining 19V will be dissipated as heat - 19W of it, which would require quite the heatsink (and likely a fan as well).
I'm trying to power several devices off of a breadboard. For simplicity I want to power these all from the same PSU. The highest voltage amongst the devices is 24V. I was looking to use a 24V 2A (maybe 3A) DC PSU to power all of these.
A word of advice: if you are powering something at 3 amps and you control circuit can only handle .75A (the PI), Isolate the power between the pi and the higher current sources to protect the PI from higher currents.  
If you are uncomfortable building it yourself, there are various versions pre-built available for sale on ebay and similar, although they may not be using components that can handle the full 3A that the chip supports. 