The problem exists in a dll shared by multiple programs (comctl32.dll) which is the common dialog control, used to display the usual "FileOpen" and "FileSave" dialogs which ressembles an Explorer window browsing a folder. If there is a shortcut to an offline network location it may freeze applications, including Explorer itself. If there is some file that causes applications to crash upon browsing a directory then this is another cause. If this is the case, it could be caused by eg. a malformed image/thumbnail, malformed document (.RTF,.DOC,.PPS,.XLS,etc), bad coded codecs that are loaded to render video thumbnails, etc, etc.
I had a similar problem. I also happen to have Notepad++ installed (although I never really converted over to it and still use plain vanilla Notepad) and what I did was I opened the file in Notepad++ then tried the Save As and it worked fine. I was then able to manipulate the file with Notepad. Not sure what caused the problem in the first place though
I asked about this problem in 2010 - just tried it again and it works now. I don't have the faintest why. Maybe some Windows update solved it. Or I uninstalled something during the last 12+ months...
You should reproduce this in an environment without any third parties softwares installed. If the problem exists then it is a bug in the Operating system itself and Microsoft should be contacted and bug reported. If the bug exists in another software, then the responsible module (DLL) should be identified and bug reported to the vendor.
Also remember that the "Desktop" is a special system folder, which has a registered CLSID and a related module (dll) which will be loaded when the directory is browsed. This DLL may have dependencies, either native or third parties. If any of these modules (dlls) contains a bug it can causes applications that loads it to crash. 
This is not really answering the question but I am not sure how to deal with it now that the problem is gone. I suppose it would not be correct to keep it unanswered.