IMHO apple mac's these days are appliances (unless your doing objective-c dev work).  If  your user are only ever going use is a browser, productivity apps like word, excel do some presentations then macs are probably the way to go.
What you're really asking is: Do Mac's have a lower Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) when compared to PC running Windows?
From lots of experience in supporting organizations that had roughly equal numbers of Unix-based and Windows-based end users, the tasks and category of the end user is more important than the platform in determining end user support requirements.  Most of the end user support is typically  "would you please reset my password," reconnecting loose cables, and ensuring switches are in the ON position.  For servers support, new rollouts, updates, troubleshooting, adding features or capabilities, etc., there was roughly a 10:1 ratio between the number of technical support people required per thousand supported seats.  That is, Windows server and technical support required 10x the amount of labor hours than Unix based systems.
The reality is, this will not describe every user in your organization.  Most accounting & other LOB application packages are mostly Windows based.  You may be able to get away with having some users on Mac's, but not the whole business.
The hours you'll spend per machine on support will have far less to do with the platform than the user so make a decision that is sensitive to the preferences and skills of your users and proceed.
I don't know how that plays out for your particular organization, but in my experience the typical crossover point is at about seven to ten users.  Of course, this assumes that you do not require Windows application (typically Microsoft Office) file import/export for your task customer base.
There was a whitepaper a few years back that tried to do a comparison, although all links to it seem dead! (maybe someone elses search skills are better then mine & can link a copy here). Here's a review of the whitepaper from a someone user who trashes it.  Here's a discussion of it on a Microsoft blog.