The advantage of this is that you can generate terrain on demand at any point in the 'world' and know that it will 'connect' with any previously generated sections of the world.
what is the best way to implement an environment that is "expandable" in every direction so that when the player moves in any direction a new row or column of tiles that can be manipulated individually is created,however as the player moves into the new created area whenever he decides to comeback, the tiles that disappeared by going off the screen are there when he comes back.
Then, as your player travels, you add your data about the tiles he travelled. At the same time, when you "create" a new row or a new column, in fact, you just show temporary information that is easy to generate "on the fly" (the pink tiles), and then you query your data containers to check if he's already been into the "generated" tiles, and modify them accordingly. 
For instance, your player goes from tile [0, 0] to tile [4, 0]. This creates 4 white tiles in your data container. When he steps back on tile [3, 0], the column 0 has to be re-generated. Which you do: all the generated tiles will be white tiles, but since you know you'll display tiles [0, 3] through [0, -3] (the whole column the player can now see), you'll query your data container and see that you have to put the tile at [0, 0] as a white tile. You'll also query you items container to see if he placed an item on one of these tiles. 
What I'm trying to do is make a new row if the player moves upwards or downwards, or make a new column if the player moves sideways. But I can control the individual tiles to make them change colors or place items. Then whenever the player advances and new tiles are created and others are moved off the screen if the player decides to come back to the area the item that was placed and color change is still there. Sorry if I'm not explaining my best, if you need a better explanation I'll be happy to give you one. Thank you.
I generally use simplex noise to create 2D height maps and the like (you could, for example, layer multiple noise maps with varying frequencies to emulate height, flora, terrain type/biomes, danger/savagery etc etc (obviously I have an rpg/fantasy game bias but they're just examples and the technique can be modified and used for just about anything)).
For example, if your player starts at position [0, 0], you know how to generate the radius around him, so, for instance, tiles [-3, -3] through [3, 3] are generated as pink tiles and displayed. Now, since the player only went on tile [0, 0], you make it as a white tile and keep only this information in a data container (for instance a map or a set). If he places an item, you also keep that information in another container. (Or you could have your data able to keep track of both.)