namecheap.com has a section: add (register) nameservers that says ns1.oranges.com = and you can input your ip's.
The hostname of the server (under main>DNS functions) is host.oranges.com with the first IP listed above.
I just signed up with Knownhost using their VPS. I have never used the WHM before, and it is confusing me a little. From what I understand the WHM is used to manage multiple domains on a single server (vps). I only need one domain for the entire server, so I setup one user "oranges" with the domain oranges.com (ok so thats not the real domain :) .
When I purchased the VPS, I had to enter a domain and selected I would transfer later, so I entered oranages.com . 20/20 seeing how WHM works (kinda) I am wondering if they wanted a domain for the server? such as MyWebServer1.com ? Reason being if I enter my ip address in the browser, I get a generic cPanel page, not my test index.html that is uploaded with the "oranges" user. 
Exact interface varies from registrar to registrar, but somewhere you will need to add two DNS Hosts.  On GoDaddy, you type in the host name of each DNS host relative you your own domain, in this case, it's ns1 and ns2, then next to it, enter the IP Address.  It will probably have .orange.com after the field where you put in the name of each DNS host representing the whole name as ns1.orange.com and ns2.orange.com.  Here is GoDaddy's help for this: http://help.godaddy.com/topic/833/article/3952?locale=en
Ok so after all of this, can I just register them with namecheap? and do I need to fowared anything in WHM? or did I botch up the registration? Also I am more than willing to read up on the required stuff, but I can't find anything specific.
Elsewhere on your registrar, you will need to set up the NS records to point to the aforementioned names.  You will enter in the full names here, ns1.orange.com and ns2.orange.com.  It will say something like "I have specific nameservers for my domains"  For GoDaddy, here is there help: http://help.godaddy.com/topic/833/article/664?locale=en#reghere