You could try using "lsof -i" to see who has those sockets open and see what's doing it.  It's probably harmless.
It isn't important.  All that signifies is that you're opening and closing a lot of Sun RCP TCP connections (1500-2500 of them every 2-4 minutes).  The TIME_WAIT state is what a socket goes into when it closes, to prevent messages from arriving for the wrong applications like they might if the socket were reused too quickly, and for a couple of other useful purposes.  Don't worry about it.
In my case, the reason for this was that netstat tries to lookup the hostname corresponding to the IP (I assume it's using the gethostbyaddr API). I was using an embedded Linux installation which had no /etc/nsswitch.conf.
TIME_WAIT is normal. It's a state after a socket has closed, used by the kernel to keep track of packets which may have got lost and turned up late to the party. A high number of TIME_WAIT connections is a symptom of getting lots of short lived connections, not nothing to worry about.
Per default, the lookup functions also try to contact the ypbind daemon (Sun Yellow Pages, also known as NIS) to query for a hostname. To query this service, the portmapper portmap has to be contacted to get the port for this service. Now the portmapper in my case got contacted via TCP. The portmapper then tells the libc function that no such service exists and the TCP connection gets closed. As we know, closed TCP connections enter a TIME_WAIT state for some time. So netstat catches this connection when listing and this new line with a new IP issues a new request that generates a new connection in TIME_WAIT state and so on...
In order to solve this issue, create a /etc/nsswitch.conf which is not using the rpc NIS services i.e. with the following  contents:
(Unless, of course, you aren't actually running anything that should be processing that many RCP operations.  Then, worry.)
Something on your system is doing a lot of RPC (Remote Procedure Calls) within your system (notice both source and destination is localhost).  That's often seen for lockd for NFS mounts, but you might also see it for other RPC calls like rpc.statd or rpc.spray.
To my surprise, the problem only exists when you are actually doing a netstat -a (found this out by running portmap in verbose and debug mode).