As for what to look out for, the Dell 1850/1950 range should meet your requirments (just double check VT compatibility on the processor before you buy) and are great pieces of kit.
Virtualization is one of the areas where I could really use some experience. I also run quite a few services (web, mail, dns, etc.) out of my home. Since most of my hardware is getting a bit old (I'm running on stuff that was surplused years ago...) I decided that it's about time I start renewing some things, and also play around with virtualization a bit more. My plan is to setup a SAN box (simple iSCSI target, relatively inexpensive gigE switch), get a pair (for starters) of new servers, and start building some new stuff with Xen, specifically planning on playing with live migration and full virtualization.
I can't help with old/cheap servers but really, you don't need server-class hardware to do this stuff. Grab a cheap somewhat recent Dell PC, put 4 or 8GB of RAM in it, and you can run 25 VMs on that box if all you're doing is personal testing. That's the sort of "sandbox" I use at home and at work for testing stuff.
Does anyone have recommendations for used, older "servers" (really anything in a rack-mount form factor, I'm not too worried about things like iLO/iLOM for the test nodes) that support VT-x/AMD-V? I'm biased to HP, but it looks like they didn't make Proliants with VT-x/Vanderpool processors until G6 (for the DL360) or so, which is way out of my price range.
In Australia alot of manufactures (Dell, HP, IBM) sell off their ex-lease equipment via sites like www.graysonline.com.au (not very helpful for you). You will often see servers, storage, network and backup devices that are ~2/3 years old and include a 3 month warranty from manufacture.
Here are my first, second, and third blog posts on running XenServer on commodity hardware.  Eventually, I scored an amazing deal on a Dell Poweredge T110 for under $350, and moved off of the commodity hardware to server class--And I have never looked back!
Edit:And, to catch this before the comments start coming - these are personal systems. I have first-generation Proliants still in use (I got them as corporate surplus in 05, they've been running since then, and probably were running since 01 or 02 prior to being sold). I don't need anything shiny and new - I've got a bunch of old boxes, at least one complete replacement for every model in use, and that's fine for me (and easy on the wallet).