About the best you could do would be to present an image of your spreadsheet, distorted like a Captcha and/or on a noisy background (to make OCR more difficult).
In looking for possible solutions, the direction I went in involved googling for "render excel spreadsheet in browser".  It seems that others have tried to do similar things with mixed results, one problem being that the browser ends up downloading the excel file, which is exactly what you don't want.
And since it will only protect 1 sheet, you can protect the single sheet with your data on, and leave another sheet unprotected for people to make formulas, or create graph / chart on the 2nd sheet. but they can't mess with the first protected sheet
You can see my version of the DECC 2050 application here. That's been automagically generated from an excel spreadsheet, by my fork of the above DECC 2050 model code.
Now, that takes us well out of the scope of SuperUser, and into Webapps / Stack Overflow territory, but it is the route that would enable you to do what you want to do: to allow users in web browsers to play with relationships expressed in a spreadsheet, and see the results, without having access to all the algorithms contained in the spreadsheet itself: all the calculations live on the server.
It will hide your cell data so people can't just select them, but nothing preventing them from re-writing it down of course.
There is a way to do it, but it's not simple. You could convert the spreadsheet into a web page, and serve that. There's a library to do just that: Excel to Code. You can see an example of it working in the DECC 2050 model code, which converts the innards of an excel spreadsheet into a C library, and also creates the ruby infrastructure to call the C library, and to build interface elements to it. (NB github's being a bit weird at the moment - if you get a 404 from any of those links, click in the browser address bar and hit enter) (disclosure - I have made tiny contributions to those github projects)
Have you considered looking at something like Zoho?  Zoho will allow you to protect the spreadsheet so that the data cannot be exported.  Google Docs didn't allow this level of granularity with protection before, but maybe things are different now.