So, my first suggestion is that your traffic might be load balanced to a destination host that uses a TTL of (e.g.) 60 (option 3 above)
It could be a variety of things.  First, the manual page for ping on my system says the following regarding TTL:
Note that when you see a long series of "* * *" responses in traceroute are a sign that a device between you and your destination is doing something unexpected with the TTL, at least for the 'destination unreachable' ICMP messages used by traceroute (which are handled a little differently from 'echo request' packets used by ping).
If your ping command offers you the ability to set the TTL, you might try a few different values to see what TTLs you get in response.
The suggestion of using traceroute is a reasonable one.  If repeated iterations of that command don't show any variation in the path from your host to the destination, then it may well be the destination that is modifying the TTL.
Alternatively, there could be a router or other device doing something unexpected with the TTL that is on one of the possible routes between your computer and the destination.  Remember, those routes may all be via your satellite connection; the Internet does not promise to send your packets using the same path every time.
Second, there is nothing technically preventing a router or security device imposing a maximum TTL on traffic passing through it, which could easily have the impact you are seeing.
I believe your answer is going to come from some form of traceroute.  But, as discussed in the comments, you have one path that is clearly not going through the satellite.  Some systems have this utility named tracert or tracerout.  tracepath offers similar functionality.
Note that you may need to run traceroute multiple times for it to actually catch the unexpected path.  Also note that firewalls can and frequently do impair traceroute's effectiveness.  While it's clear that icmp is not being blocked outright, security devices are fairly commonly configured to not generate the 'destination unreachable' icmp messages on which traceroute depends in its default mode of operation.  Just because traceroute answers * * * for one TTL does not mean the next one won't have answers.  Your ping test has verified that google.com will at least respond.
Another option could be ping -R.  However, playing with this option myself, it appears Google doesn't support this usage, so you'll need to find a different target that will.  This option works by including a header option that asks the routers to all record who they are on the packet as they pass it to the target, and then pass the response back to the source.  I haven't used this option much, but I would guess that security devices may also mess with its output - either by just not mentioning their existence, or by dropping the request on the floor.