Does that assessment seem accurate? Is there any settings I can change here that will give any performance benefit?
It is sitting on a Xen DomU (Debian) that is also running heartbeat and DRBD (in active/passive) to sync the data_dir partition across a gigibit crossover and to provide failover. NOTE: the web servers, caching servers and database servers are all Xen virtual servers sitting on two servers for redundancy and failover.
The application is a PHP based CMS called eZ Publish. We are hosting about 90 sites off of this setup.
Working for a client, I have inherited a large InnoDB MySQL database server. The data size of all tables (across about 180 schema) according to Information_Schema is about 34.9GB with a total size of about 38GB.
The rest of the data (about 9GB) is actual content that is updated often. There multiple web servers at the front end and also static file caches sitting in front of these. Still the web servers are doing about 500k hits a day. The web servers only ever get loaded when the databases are waiting on IO and seem to be able to handle a large amount of queries and connections before this happens.
InnoTop is showing about 40 Million queries per day. On average about 500 qps. The database server has 2 CPUs, one is hardly ever used, running a 32Bit kernel and has 2GB of ram. 512MBs have been allocated to the InnoDB buffer pool. I am aware that this isn't much. The server doesn't have any more free.
The total data size consists of about 25GB of BLOB data (Images, Videos, File Uploads etc) that is stored in the database to allow for multiple front end web servers that cache these files on their local filesystem. The caches on these servers is probably flushed on average about 10 times a week.
165 IOPS? Where do you read that from? I think you miscalculated by adding rrqm (read request merges) and wrqm (write request merges) instead of using  r/s + w/s (real IOPS by disk). Additionally the disk is only at 21% utilization - that usually not a sign to add more spindles. Everything below 70% for a given LUN can be considered OK.
TL;DR - Having some IO based issues with InnoDB. Before I sign the form to request more hardware can you have a look and see if you agree with my assessment
Based on the below outputs and from reading online blogs and this Book I have concluded that the server is grossly under resourced and we would benefit a lot if we had enough memory to store the 9GB of data that is access frequently (if not all of the 35GB of data) and/or faster disks replicated over at least 10GB fiber channel.