In a few cases a more detailed analysis is worthwhile. Being network-centric I would usually look at timings from power-on such as:
That said, I imagine any manufacturers that are quoting boot time are quoting the shortest possible time, which will be to login prompt, or desktop appearing I would imagine.
If you're benchmarking the OS's boot performance, you measure what the OS is taking up in time before it's telling you "Hello, world!"...the login prompt's time to begin taking input.
Again, a record of this, perhaps with indications of numbers of frames and total bytes, is helpful as software and systems changes and as a reference in the event of problems.
I don't know if there's a standard for this, but personally I consider my system to have 'booted' when I am able to open the start menu (or dock) and start an application. Before that point I don't really consider the system usable.
I usually measure and record all these as they will, over time, all vary with system problems, start-up processes, changes to applications, changes to the machine specs, change of models of PC purchased and so on. Have a record of just what these times were at original build can be quite helpful.
On Windows I generally measure until the Start menu can open or you can get a response by right-clicking on the desktop.  Another metric can be obtained by keeping taskmgr.exe in your Startup folder; once CPU usage drops to a usable state the machine can be considered "booted".  A lot of software can load post logon (AV, various agents or clients, etc) and there seems to me to be no point whatsoever in getting you to the desktop as fast as possible if it's completely unusable for a few minutes after that.
Typically these would be done by noting the time on power-up and then looking through a tcpdump or wireshark trace subsequently.
On when the final test should finish (3 apps open) there can be value in not just having the app open but having performed a simple first use (e.g. a browser will load a home page and this may suffice; a word processor could load a test document (same for every test: already loaded at least once previously if on a network resource)).
I think boot time is generally measured as when you get your login prompt and can start interacting with the operating system, as the OS has background services running, you can interact with it, and if you're launching applications to measure "usefulness" you're introducing variables that the OS manufacturer has no control over (they didn't make firefox, or other applications you commonly use, so it's not their fault if the libraries/etc. are slow to load).