You don't even NEED to even mount the boot partition, I presume you mean /. Normal Linux writes to the filesystem all the time and won't work if it is not writable. It is possible to put these elsewhere (usually tempfs).
In summary I suggest you don't bother trying to quarantine your OS. Always poweroff safely and backup regularly.
I have had 2 SD Card problems with 5 Pi, 12 SD Cards over 4 years. One was a Card which totally failed after a few days use, and was replaced under warranty. The other was a failed update.
Yes, if you have properly flagged the boot partition to be read-only in software then the write-protect switch on the card is irrelevant.  
Mind you, I have experienced MANY problems due to operator error! This is probably cause of most reported problems. The appropriate remedy here is BACKUP.
You need to distinguish the causes of "corruption". Most often this is just a problem, experienced by all computers which fail while writing. This is usually fixed by journalling.  In rare cases powering off while the SD Card firmware is performing housekeeping can cause "corruption".
In any case, be sure to use Win32DiskImager to make a .img backup so you can always just restore your SD card to a known, good state.
In fact, the instance of "corruption" is rare (and it never seems to happen to the experienced users).
The best detection method, then, would be to check for the presence of a file you know is there.  If the open fails, then you could trigger a reformat.  Or it might hang the machine.
What I'm going to do is set up the system as I originally described with the primary partitions readonly and one additional partition that is writeable, and I will write data to that partition as infrequently as possible -- only when the user makes changes to settings.  My hope is that it will be extremely rare that the RPi will lose power at the exact moment that the one data file is being written.
As for the detection and reformatting part, that would rarely happen as long as you don't just randomly lose power to the unit.  Even then, Raspbian is good about keeping the write caches flushed out to disk. Only if you lose power while writing to a directory would you expect sudden loss of power to do damage to it.  