Wi-fi speeds, per-band (such as "dual band" and "tri-band" routers), are listed a best-case half-duplex signals on a shared medium (radio waves). That is, the best-case sum of speeds for all connected users is the posted speed (in your case, apparently 44mbps). Further note that half of that is allocated to download and half to upload and you'll maybe lose 20% more due to overhead. So you can only actually sum to the posted speed if you're doing both downloading and uploading. Also note that when you have multiple wi-fi devices connected on the same band, weak connections (e.g., through a thick wall) will result in the connection slowing for all users.
If your router says 300mbps, unless the router itself is slow (and not actually able to deliver data to your computer as fast as the physical radio waves allow), if used correctly, you can expect to share around 120mbps of download speeds under optimal conditions.
You can think of a (dumb) ethernet switch as a device that turns one ethernet port into many. For example, if you have a router with 5 gigabit ethernet ports and you need 10 ports, if you plug an 8-port gigabit switch into one of the router's ports, you now have 11 ports on the network (4 left of the router and 7 left on the switch). However, all the devices, should they need to communicate with the router (which might mean accessing the Internet or communicating with the other four devices on the router) will share a 1gbps connection. Thus, unless you're using something like VLANs (you'd know it if you were) or doing high speed transfers on your LAN to devices connected to the router, the switch shouldn't make your network "work differently".
If your router is a single-band router (only supports 2.4GHz), then if it says 300mbps, it ought to support a 300mbps physical link. If it's a dual band (has 2.4GHz and 5Ghz), then the combined speed is 300mbps, but it sounds like your router only has 2.4GHz. There is a wi-fi standard for 2.4GHz that supports up to 600mbps (see here), but it sounds like your router does not support it.