I prefer to design a situation, model it as accurately as I can, and allow as many standard manipulations as I can, and let problems and solutions emerge intrinsically and appropriately. 
These games are generally easier to design puzzles for because its acceptable for puzzles to get ridiculous and unintuitive because it is, after all, a 'puzzle.
So, I would suggest building a tool to edit levels / elements / etc in your game. Experiment yourself, and allow other designers to experiment. You will see interesting patterns emerge.
Think of IQ puzzle designers. If I give you a sequence 1,9,25,49,_ and ask you what is next you have to use logic to determine what is going on. Where as from the designers point of view it is just matter of making something up that takes no logic at all:
Be sure to tie your puzzles in with the game world and the immersion of the game itself and you will have some thoroughly engaging mind-bogglers.
Experiment. Think about puzzle games you have played that come packaged with a level editor. How would you create a new puzzle using their tool?
On the flip side, the old school adventure gamers tend to want hardcore puzzles like they saw in maniac mansion. The best way to design puzzles like this is to start at the solution and work backwards. This allows you to create multi-faceted solutions like those seen in Day of the Tentacle and the other classic Lucas Arts games.
Those who play for story generally prefer 'puzzles', in a broad sense, with a heavy grounding in reality. This include the more modern post-adventure games like Heavy Rain and Dreamfall. The key with games like this is not to break the immersion and to consider your 'puzzles' as 'challenges' instead.
Of course there is some overlap but it might be a good idea to establish your audience before thinking about puzzle design.
As an adventure game developer (Eternally Us, McCarthy Chronicles) I've found that adventure gamers are generally split into 2 camps. Those who play for puzzles and those who play for interaction and story.
The biggest advice I can give is to play a lot of adventure games. All puzzles generally fall within 1 of several specific categories with well established tropes. Just observe and imitate, then try to branch your puzzles into something new.
An interesting way to design puzzles is through abstraction - look at objects around your home or elsewhere and think about how they interact with each other, how they can be manipulated and how they could benefit a goal or aim.
Puzzles can be about a whole variety of things applicable to simple day-to-day living. Some examples: shape, colour, memory, logic, primitive maths (addition, subtraction, multiplication and division), sound, depth, light, interaction of lifeforms.
Early examples included Infocom's Suspended and FTL's Dungeon Master, though they were a mix of scripted puzzle logic and semi-realistic game systems.
Working backwards is also a very intuitive way to create puzzles of any sort. I would imagine this is the most common technique. When you know the answer it is easy to build complexity on top of it.