Note: Make sure you collect the information over a long period (one week at least), and the server is running at peak usage.
However, these numbers are NOT a Microsoft official recommendation, and may be different on your servers so always test before you apply.
Note that they recommend collecting metrics from your server running at peak usage for at least 1 week - so at the planning and implementation stages of your projects you may not be in a position to do that, and will have to make time later in your project to do so.
These days, with servers having 64-128-256GB RAM, it's not usually a good idea to have Windows pause to write out the entire contents of memory during a crash. You'd rather have the SQL Server back up and running, and deal with the mini-dump contents rather than the full. Save the full dumps for later - you can usually go your whole career without needing to upload a 64+GB dump file to Microsoft. (Good luck on that one.)
When sizing the page file we need to consider our applications memory needs and crash dump settings.
In most cases the Kernel Memory Dump is good enough for root cause analysis, as Complete Memory Dump is only required in specific cases, for example you want to see what happened in the user mode.
For example: If the server has 24 GB RAM and the maximum of Committed Bytes is 26 GB, then the recommended page file will be: (26*1.2)-24)  = 7.2 GB
You won't find guidance out there because SSAS is just like any other app that gets installed on your SQL Server: we just don't know how much memory you're going to use. Treat SSAS/SSIS/SSRS as third party applications - they just happen to be included as "free" in the SQL Server box. They have totally different CPU, memory, and storage needs.
My recommendations are so that Windows can do a mini-dump. If you run into a problem where you need to call Microsoft support, you can start with the mini-dump. If the problem recurs, and they can't figure it out from the mini-dump (or other sources of information, like the error log), then they may ask you to go to 1.5x RAM size.
Microsoft's 1.5x RAM recommendations are so that Windows can do a FULL dump of memory when your system crashes.
What you call "my" recommendations are from Microsoft KB 2806535. Start there in general, but when a specific application tells you something different, then they know something about their application that's different from SQL Server in general - follow that.
All of the other answers given so far for the page file size reference relatively out of date articles. This Technet Blog post is more up to date (October 2015) and gives a more detailed way to calculate ideal page file size on modern systems. 