So while you could, conceivably, make one to much of what the other does, there's no real reason to do so. They won't do it as well, and you'll have to make compromises. They are different beasts. They compliment each other in many ways (phone makes good user interface to wifi-connected RPi). It's not a zero-sum game. You can use both.
I use both old Android phones and Raspberry Pis. Each has strengths that the other cannot easily reproduce.
The RPi lets me run mainstream Linux programs such as Node and Flask for server development. They provide a cheap platform that I can use for open source development using a bewildering array of languages and pre-built, free libraries at no cost. Programs written for the RPi can typically be run on a full desktop and vice-versa (within the limitations of hardware). I can also use the array of powerful open source software tools that previously required me to haul around a couple of laptops in a convenient form factor. I have used the camera module, but it pales compared to the smartphones for quality (though it's certainly useful for other purposes). It has no battery, but I can plug it into a 10,000 mAh battery for hours of use when needed. I don't do hardware development, but even without the GPIO capabilities, the RPi is irreplaceable for me. The RPi can be plugged into a wired network, or configured as an access point or wireless monitor. I can plug the RPi into a monitor and use a USB keyboard and mouse for comfort. I can plug 8 USB-serial adapters into a hub and use it as a serial terminal for configuring network equipment. I use RPis for network testing. My typical RPi costs about $85 (RPi, case, power adapter, 2 USB wifi adapters).
An Android phone is fine if you're comfortable with developing Android apps and being limited to the features you have access to. On a rooted phone, you should have access to most features. The phones have an impressive array of sensors (light, compass, GPS, more), a built-in battery/UPS, outstanding cameras and wifi. If you want these features in a handy, self-contained package, a smartphone is hard to beat. I can buy a Droid Bionic for roughly $65 used, and use them as remote network cameras, polled by my Linux server running motion.