No way you can make it. Either 1U or 2U will be too loud for a quiet living room. If course if you turn it on only when you listen to a music or watch movies, it might be ok; you'll need to use the remote to put the system to sleep as soon as you finish using it, and wake it up with the remote when you need it again.
I was able to modify an old 1U case I bought on ebay, used new fans and slowed them way down, used that computer as router/firewall. Since my computer is low power, not much cooling is needed. I can barely hear it even near the rack, if the door is closed. You can try doing something similar, but be prepared that you'll the computer will never be 100% silent, and you will have to try different fan speeds that are not too loud while still provide acceptable cooling. Also, building 1U or 2U computer from components is not for the faint of heart, as nothing fits easily. But if you buy a complete system, you cannot modify the cooling without voiding the warranty.
I would not advise you going with a 1U or 2U, these are not chasis made for 'quiet' performance, they are for pure cooling + small footprint. Air gets pulled in the front, usually via 40mm or 60mm fans, and out the back.  IT makes noise...
1U frame gives you very little slack, in terms of cooling, noise control, fitting components, etc. You can try going the 2U route, but it will be very hard to make it as quiet as a real HTPC case with 120MM fans and passive CPU cooling.
I think the trick here is to not overdo it. Remember that most of the noise in these systems comes from the cooling. Any of the recent Atom-based systems should be able to handle your HTPC needs. AMD's low power line also handles this load very well. If you do that, you won't need as much cooling and the noise level should improve.
Noise control will be a problem for any 1U or 2U enclosure you can buy. Air flow is limited, fans are small and noisy, you can't use passive CPU cooling, etc. 
You are trying to create an HTPC out of a server level piece of hardware, that will never fit your noise level requirement.
Under normal circumstances I'd also advice an SSD to help with noise control, but that might not provide you enough space if you want to store movies or have TIVO-like features.
Just buy a standard HTPC case (aluminum or whatever you like) and buy that based on noise levels and what large fans you could put in (120mm, etc).