For most modern operating systems it is a pretty simple setup, and in most basic environments it will just work. In Windows Server 2012 you have to use Switch Independent mode and the OS will take care of everything.
Suppose there is only one switch within a system and it is connected to a bunch of machines to form a network. If this switch goes down, the entire network goes down. Chances of this happening are unlikely. I would like to know... what are the ways to increase the availability of these machines?
Each switch in the Core network should be connected to each switch in the access network using at least 2 cables again when possible use 802.3ad (LACP).
Would I need to have a second switch connected to each machine (so each machine needs 2 network adapters)? Or could I somehow obtain a switch that is able to failover to another backup switch? Is there other recommended ways to do this?
Each server/host should have 2+ network ports capable of LACP or NIC Teaming. These should distributed to different switches and cluster members should be distributed so that at least one port of one member of the cluster exists on each switch. 
If you are going to have two swtiches, instead of going through the effort of buying a second NIC for each computer and then running the cable, just keep a spare switch that has the exact config.  You could easily rack mount it or sit it on top of the production switch.  If the switch goes down, just unplug one port at a time from faulty switch to backup switch.
This is a rough outline of what I see most and have adopted myself in the past. It would allow multiple simultaneous failures without network outage. 
Switch 3, 4 and 5 should also be aggregated into a stack when possible. Each switch should have a connection to each other switch, preferably at least 2 cables setup to use 802.3ad (LACP). 
Very interesting question.  The more I think of an answer to this problem them more road blocks I am hitting.
Switch 1 and Switch 2 represent a collapsed Core/Distribution network and Switch 3, 4, and 5 represent an access network. 
This is much more complicated than the above but companies like Cisco have Failover features on some switches.  I would images you would have to get the right switches that support it.  Have a read of these links:
You have just created a logical interface that contains the other physical interfaces. Now you can provide the Team interface an IP, Default Gateway, etc. just like you would any network interface.
Then you just build your access network again and again and connect it back to your core. You would never connect 2 access networks however because it is the job of the core to handle that part of the switching. 
Switches 1 and 2 should usually be aggregated by combining them into some kind of stack when possible, however you can configure them as 2 separate non stacked switches if need be. The two switches should be connected by multiple aggregated 802.3ad (LACP) connections consisting of at least 2 cables 
This is obviously what you suggested but you might run into problems with each computer on your network taking 2 IP address's.  What I would suggest for this scenario is to have the computers connected to both switches but make sure you only have one switch on at a time.  So if one fails you can manually flick the second switch on with minimum down time.
You will need the multiple NICs in each box and the two switches, with each box plugged into both switches. Then setup NIC Teaming/NIC Bonding. 