Things would work nicely as 4GB is the limit for a 32bit processor.  Here's as article that goes more in depth and actually shows that you can install and use much more than 4GB on a 32bit OS.
OS is a thorny one. Linux and windows have both supported PAE for ages. Unfortunately since windows XP service pack 2 MS has artificially limited the physical address space to 4GB. They claim they did this because of buggy drivers, cynics would suspect they did it to force people to buy server editions.
The second thing to understand is that physical address space is used for various things, most significantly main ram and memory mapped perhipherals. Graphics cards in particular often have large memory mapped regions. The result is if you only have 4GB of usable physical address space you can end up with significantly less than 4GB of usable ram. Approximately 3.5 GB usable is typical but I have seen systems where it was as low as 2.5 GB.
The first thing to understand is that modern computer systems use virtual memory. You can have 32-bit virtual addresses for applications while having larger than 32-bit physical addresses.
I suppose technically if the operating-system were well-designed, you could use more than 4GB. There's no reason I can think of that an OS with virtual memory capabilities could not use 32-bit virtual addresses with 64-bit real addresses.
Many older chipsets were limited to 4GB of physical address space. IIRC Intel Laptop chipsets got support for more than 4GB of address space with the "Santa Rosa" generation in 2007. I'm not sure about desktop chipsets but I expect it was around the same time. Workstation/server chipsets obviously got support much earlier.
Afaict BIOSes mostly support it if the chip set does. Wouldn't surprise me if there are some exceptions though.
In windows XP this is baked in to the kernel and basically can't be undone. However on later versions it can be bypassed with some minor hacks to the kernel. See https://wj32.org/wp/ for details.
On a  PC to support more than 4GB of physical address space a mechanism called PAE is used. For this to work several things are needed.
Of course on modern operating systems, you can pretty much plug in as much as your motherboard can take without issue (though you may not be able to use it all), but that wasn't always the case, at least with Windows: