Is it possible to detect an unauthorized switch on a LAN? My university IT department does not permit people from attaching their own switches to the network. I am interested in knowing if it is actually possible to detect them and circumvent detection?
I believe nmap can tell someone what is connected to the network and whether it is a switch or router or Pc. You might check the documentation to see if it can be fooled by spoofing the mac.
Does a virtual Machine with bridged network connections make the host machine look like a switch? How can once analyze the traffic from a port to know if there is a switch downstream or if they are just virtual machines? I could change my physical machine MACs (first 3 octates) to be in the range of virtual machines, if MAC is the only way to distinguish switches from a VM.
Using managed switches or a system like arpwatch, it is capable to monitor all traffic on the network for MAC addresses. You can then enforce that only one MAC address be routed to each port on the managed switch equipment. When a switch was used outside of your network, you would notice because there would be too many (>1) MAC addresses routed to a given port.
if you would connect a switch this would mean that you would have more than one mac address talking to the network, this can be locked down on enterprise switches like cisco's
Is your university using such a system? depends on a lot of factors. I would tend to guess that they're not, just because this kind of setup takes time and effort to implace. They may, though. If your university uses RADIUS authentication then this would definitely be a road block, since the RADIUS server is tracking objects my MAC address and thus would see each thing on the switch as a different client, so they'd all need to be authenticated separately.
A virtual machine bridge would still look this way because there is more than one address on a given port, but a virtual machine configured in a NAT configuration would not, since all traffic would go through the host machine. What the MAC address properties say is not really the issue, it's the number of addresses in the ARP table for a given place. 