Long-story-short, it is really down to how you set up your system.  Ubuntu, and most derivatives, act as windows in this way except they have nopass off - but your initial account is indeed an admin account.
Linux allows very extensive user rights management, most of which can be controlled through visudo (i.e. "The sudoers file").  You can control who has admin access (root privileges) and to what type of executables.  They can either require a password to execute them -or- be allowed nopass, which is basically the equivalent to a Windows Administrator account.
But, as @Eddy_Em said, all-be-it harshly, is that Windows sets up its users to not know/care about that type of restriction by default since XP.  You could set-it up yourself and have a typical user account and an admin account, then you would have to supply the user/pass to make changes (just use the user level account to login).
No, neither Sudo nor UAC actually NEED a password. the point of both systems is to make sure the operator is absolutely sure they want to do something as admin, not to check to see if they ARE admin. you can;t use sudo or uac unless you are authenticated under a admin-capable account. this is why the sudo password on most systems is the users password itself.  Note that in Vista, windows RUNAS support was weak, so some shops used UAC as a Runas alternative, but that is not its purpose.
The UAC can actually be disabled through Control Panel. The security of the application depends on the privileges of the logged on account and the exposed surface area of the system. 
Technically speaking, it is much better to use a traditional user account and only use elevated accounts for administrative work that shouldn't be terribly common after system set-up.  
By default, the first account created is an admin account (Since new windows, by default does not have a root (or "Administrator" in windows-lang) account).  What that means is then your usual user account acts as a linux admin with nopass set and behaves pretty similarly.