I've been reading up on networking and I believe that I have a pretty solid understanding of what is going on with our network. I understand the principles of port forwarding and the idea that a router can be used as a way to block incoming connections to services. I've also got our Nginx-based web server up and running, although I haven't figured out how to connect it to the Internet just yet.
This was the next solution I came up with. It's a DMZ-style setup that allows the server to be on the outside of the business network but still serve HTTP.
This was the first solution that I came up with. Using a workgroup switch, I wanted to give both routers top-level positions. The server router would forward TCP port 80 (http).
I'm trying to get the web server to be safely secluded from the rest of the network. If the server is compromised, then I don't want it affecting the computers that we use for day-to-day work.
This solution is similar to the first solution, but a router is used instead of a switch to provide proper IP handling.
Also, we don't really have the budget for new equipment, so I am making do with a bunch of home networking equipment that we have laying around. If this is completely insufficient, let me know, but I assume that it will work.
Starting at the top, the thick black line (representing the building data connection, Comcast) is split into internet at the modem. There is no in-wall ethernet set up here- our business uses wi-fi as the method of internet use. So the wi-fi router is connected directly to the modem, because it is the only device on the top level. The wi-fi router serves internet for day-to-day use.
Note: I know Server Fault has a low tolerance for questions that use home networking hardware. That's really the only reason I posted here- I want my question answered and I don't want to play politics. If this is the wrong site, I would appreciate it if you could move it to the correct location. Thanks.
Being the IT guy/network guy/general tech guru, I am learning to be a jack of all trades. Unfortunately, I have little experience with networking, but I'm learning and it's been interesting.
I don't want to cause the "day-to-day" network to be slowed too much by adding the server. I also don't want the server to be very slow because of the network layout.
I'm also unsure of how to set the best solution up so that it serves internet properly and securely to each network. What do I need to do with IP addresses, open ports, and subnet masks for each router?
I'm designing a server setup for the small business where I work. We want to be able to host our own web server and other services in the future at our own location.