I've installed Apache server on my machine. I've set it up and designated the root folder, etc. When I go to http://localhost/, it works fine, telling me that Apache is installed correctly. However, when I enter my IP in the browser, it does not work and comes up with "connection timing out" error. I tried configuring everything with my router (i.e. port forwarding), but to no avail. When I connected my computer directly to my modem, bypassing the router, I can access the root folder by typing my IP in a browser. However, the root folder is not accessible through the internet according to http://downforeveryoneorjustme.com/ and a friend who tried to access it through the internet. I've tried specifying my server and binding Apache to my IP address using ServerName and Listen, respectively, in the httpd.conf file. Still, no avail.
In a similar vein, check which IP addresses Apache has actually bound to with the following command:
Guys, I'm stupid. It was my computer's firewall. I had thought that I had allowed port 80, so I dismissed it. Plus, the problems that I had really pointed to another source. But alas, after turning off the firewall, it worked, and then I realized that I had not, in fact, allowed port 80.
I suspect your ISP does not allow external access to customer networks on incoming port 80. You could verify this theory (if your router allows it) by setting its port forwarding to direct traffic on Your_External_IP:8888 to Your_Computer's_Internal_IP:80.
If you are going to bind to just one address, it should be the Ethernet interface connected to your LAN.  You should configure Apache to listen on the the non routable private IP used by your server behind the NAT based router, not the public IP assigned by your ISP.
So obviously you have connectivity with other protocols from those locations? It is not a routing problem?
If the result is :80 or :::, then Apache is listening on all IP addresses associated with your server.  Otherwise, Apache is bound to only one IP address.
Assuming you have Apache set up to listen to port 80 (should be by default) and your computer's firewall configured to pass traffic in on port 80, this should tell you if it's your router forwarding settings or your LSP being actively serious about their "no servers" Terms of Service clause.
On your NAT based router configure port 80 to forward to port 80 on the private IP assigned to your Apache server.
When you were able to "access the root folder by typing my IP in a browser", was this from inside your local network?  (Assuming so.)