Alternatively, I would also highly recommend Unity (http://unity3d.com/), which has some great tutorials, and is similar in functionality to UDK but in my opinion much easier.  The pluses are that your son will be able to quickly create some pretty impressive 3d games (and 2d as well), though the minus would be that there is some (relatively little) programming involved.  Again, it's easier than UDK, but with similar results.  The programming options include Javascript, C# and Boo.  As I mentioned, there are some incredible (at least two of which are like 80+ pdfs teaching you how to do a lot of cool stuff) tutorials on their website, which made it a breeze for me personally to learn, although my disclaimer is that I started using Unity having already been programming professionally for several years, which might bias me (easier than UDK though!).
When I was around your son's age (13 or so), the thing that first got me into game development was a program called Klik n Play.  It was a program that allowed you to make simple 2d games without any coding at all by using a point and click action/reaction Event Editor to "program" it.  It no longer exists, but I believe its descendant, Multimedia Fusion (http://www.clickteam.com/eng/mmf2.php), is still supported and available, which boasts a similar low barrier to entry, requiring no programming.  The down side to these programs is that the end result might be less than inspiring, as it's pretty much limited to relatively simple 2d games.
However, it did remind me of the time I played with Unity 3D. To get further, I would probably say Unity3D like Matt Rix has, just because of the resemblance to GMod that it has - most of the action is in the WYSIWYG window, but because the scripting plays a larger part, the customizability is greater too.
Mods for Garry's Mod are written entirely in Lua. If he can get a hang of Lua, and learning Garry's Mod API which is really well documented on that Wiki...I think he could get pretty far. He can use the 3d models, maps, and sounds that come with the game, and just start out buy just scripting different weapons and move to more advanced stuff like game objectives as he get's more comfortable.
As far as Garry's Mod goes, I'd probably place it on a level similar to that of Game Maker for use. You can do Lua scripting, and I have played some very nice mods with it (my favourite was called Trouble In Terrorist Town, which played like Call of Duty mixed with Murder In The Dark).  