The better design provides the routers with as much Internet topology awareness as possible. The best path algorithm is left to determine the inbound and outbound routing logic. The circuits would back each other up in a failed state.
I would like to get some opinions regarding ways in which I can improve a BGP dual-provider, dual-router design. Each provider supplies a /24 public subnet. I will refer to the routers, circuits, subnets, HSRP groups and providers as A and B, respectively. The bandwidth on each circuit is adequate for the entire load.
Assuming the two /24's you mentioned as having are PI independent address space so you are announcing them via both providers, or both providers have agree to announce the same IP address space for you, you can now announce both prefixes to both ISPs from both routers without prepends or communities and get better inbound routing as well (of course, unless you have some CDRs you need to adhear to or similar, in which case you can tune as required).
Get full BGP tables from both providers - Now, you will have more optimal outbound routing because you will be routing via the transit provider with the smallest AS path to your destination. As you said, you can remove HSRP and simple advertise a default route in OSPF and run iBGP between your two edge routers.
Now that I type it out, it does seem simpler. At the very least, it took fewer words to explain. There are concerns about asymmetry, but I have seen plenty of asymmetry in the current design. I would think they are probably equally prone to asymmetry and it really doesn’t worry me. We have never seen problems as a result. Presently it is relegated to the realm of ifs, “What ‘if’ we had to troubleshoot something?”
The providers only advertise the default route. Outbound routing entails a mix of PBR and HSRP. The routers have no routing between them: No iBGP, no OSPF, no static routing. Instead, there are two HSRP groups tracking the default route. Router A is primary for HSRP group A and router B is primary for HSRP group B. Downstream devices have a default route pointing to HSRP group A and PBR which directs traffic sourced from subnet B to HSRP group B. Inbound routing is influenced with prepending and communities. Subnet A is prepended and communitied on circuit B and subnet B is prepended and communitied on circuit A.
Personally, I loath PBR.  Its one of those technologies that when I decide that its the best solution to the problem, I stop and take a step back to see if I really understand the real nature of the problem, even back to figuring out what the business problem to be solved is.  When I do so, I almost always find that there is a way to solve the problem without using a technology like that.
So what I understand from the write up is that you don't really have a need to make decisions based on AS paths to reach external subnets and the only purpose of dual homing to two ISP's is to buy redundancy to reach the internet. If thats the case, then you don't really need to run BGP. You can just accept the same default routes that you are already receiving from both your service provider. Now for the local side of the network, run a single ospf area on the routers that connect to the ISP on the interface facing your LAN (Do not include the ISP interface under the process) and depending on how simple the design needs to be to you can add routers in different areas and summarize the subnets at network boundaries, but for two subnets I think size of the OSPF database or the number of LSA flooding is not a huge concern, so you can put all the nodes in a single OSPF area and divide it into different areas as you grow. 
You don't want to have full Internet routes in your OSPF database, so you'll want to advertise a default via OSPF into the interior of your network (or perhaps static default...personally I prefer default in OSPF).  That will move traffic towards the BGP speaking Internet routers which can make the more fully informed decision of having the full Internet routes.
That will give you close to "destination based best path".  There will still be cases where the traffic will do things you don't quite expect, so you'll want to get familiar with the BGP route selection process.
I see much room for improvement in this design. The lack of Internet topology awareness combined with circuit affinity completely eliminates best path selection. There are concerns about the tier designation of the providers and the design has been rationalized as providing ‘acceptable performance’ and simpler to troubleshoot. Indeed, the design couldn’t possibly get any simpler. I have demonstrated that transiting an extra AS adds 6 hops and 63ms (+421%) to the RTT. I would prefer not to settle for acceptable.
On each OSPF router that connects to the ISP, redistribute the learned default routes into OSPF by using a "default-information originate" statement.  
And I agree with the previous answer in that symmetric routing is over-rated, I rather go for scalability and ease of maintenance. 
The current design attempts to achieve per-provider symmetry. In a steady state, the intended routing logic is that traffic to/from subnet A transits only circuit A and traffic to/from subnet B transits only circuit B. The circuits would back each other up in a failed state.
To offer a different approach to the others given already, which may or may not be better than the existing ideas, but primarily to through some extra ideas out there;
Having full Internet routes in your routers will take some getting used to, but once you get used to it, it is indeed very easy to understand and troubleshoot.  Certainly there are fewer "moving parts" of different protocols to worry about.
You will get asymmetry in the improved design, but asymmetry is a fact of life on the Internet, and there's really no good reason to expect symmetric routing of traffic to/from.  Shoot, the whole concept of packet routing is that separate packets are routed independently of each other and may take different paths, even packets going in the same direction.
The providers advertise the full view. The routers run iBGP and OSPF. HSRP is eliminated. The outbound routing would be purely destination-based best path and the inbound routing would be left to the best path algorithm and transit provider whims.
Set up AS prepends and communities etc on your two edge routers to control outbound traffic granularly as you require. So ISP B may have a better route to some subnet but you may buy more transit from ISP A and rather it when via them, and so on.
Am I way off base here or did I hit the nail on the head? How have others solved this problem? What would Google do?