Of these two my guess is the second one trying to pinpoint the problem. My guess is based on running the service manually using this command:
The solution was to create a scheduled task along the lines described in this SU answer.  For the action I executed net start from the command line.  Program/script: C:\Windows\System32\cmd.exe, Add arguments: /C "net start VMwareHostd".  I scheduled the task to run as logon after 10 seconds (1s failed).
I had the same issue where the service would not start, I deleted the datastores.xml, removed and reinstalled several times with different versions of Workstation from 12-12.52 and nothing.  Just randomly I changed the HTTPS port for sharing to any other number and Sharing and the Server Service started right up...
VMWare workstation has a feature to share VMs. To use this feature VMware Workstation Server should be running, and it should be running by a default installation configuration. However in my case This feature won't run its service vmware-hostd and any manual start of this service results in immediate stop.
C:\Program Files (x86)\VMware\VMware Workstation>vmware-hostd.exe -u "C:\Program Data\VMware\hostd\config.xml" > d:\a.log
VMUSBArbService also wasn't started, even though 'Automatic' was selected.  It seemed something was stopping VMUSBArbService from accessing a file.  I suspect it was my BitDefender Antivirus, but I couldn't verify that assertion.
Have you got the same admin rights on your workstation? Try to remove the software and install it newly with admin rights. It looks like some component are not working very well, so maybe a new install or update can fix your issue. 
So I found the culprit. I had proxifier software which routed custom packets into a given socks proxy. I don't know how it denied vmware workstation to startup the shared VM service, but I'm completely sure the problem was originated from this software.
I had a similar issue.  VMwareHostd didn't start up even though 'Automatic' was selected.  The Windows Event log said: