For desktop work, I don't see multitouch monitors being that popular.  I don't think the ergonomics support it.
I don't think that Multi-Touch will ever be big on the PC. One big reason: Just try pushing your monitor. If you are like 99% of all users who have their monitor on a feet or arm, the monitor will now be pushed back.
I can say multi-touch games will be a different genre, not another standard method of input for pc games. There are games people will still prefer to use on controllers. (Imagine street fighter using multi-touch)
If multitouch becomes more popular and supported in games, it'll more than likely be due to multitouch trackpads on gaming-capable laptops becoming more and more pervasive and not due to touch monitors.
The idea of multi-touch pads for desktops is interesting, but they have issues. Wacom and similar tablets work well because they can sense the pen when it hovers over the tablet. This allows the user to move a cursor around the screen without committing to a button press. You can't do that with multi-touch, so either the user is always pressing a button, or you need some other indicator for clicking. Neither option there is ideal.
Ergonomics of multi-touch vertical monitors just doesn't work, not to mention that having your hands in front of the screen isn't ideal for visibility.
Multitouch is a nice idea, but the ergonomics are simply too horrible and there is no viable solution anywhere near.
Multi-touch might only just be useful for entertainment and future homes or even educational game purposes.
Sure, you can solve that by mounting it on a flexible arm and moving between work and play modes - welcome to the <1% of users who have such a setup.
But on a PC, finding the right balance between proper placement of the screen for working AND ergonomic usage just won't happen. Either you tire out too easily or you can't see properly or you have stuff in your way on the desktop, e.g. keyboard and mouse. Trying to move the monitor then results in cables being in the way.