Recursion is only a technique that can be used to solve problems. It is defined as "calling itself directly or indirectly with an input of smaller size than the original problem size". 
Similarly, reverse search procedures (e.g. for listing the vertices of a convex polytope or for various other combinatorial enumeration procedures) are really just performing a recursive traversal of some implicitly-defined tree, but don't need to store more than a constant number of tree nodes at a time — in this case there is more than one recursive call from each call, but the call stack does not need to be stored because it can instead be calculated from the structure of the tree that is being traversed.
Although not for sorting, note that there are algorithms that may naturally be described using recursion but that do not require storage of a call stack. For instance, quickselect can be described as a modified version of quicksort that makes only one of the two recursive calls of quicksort; however, using tail recursion for this call avoids the need for a call stack.
Who says that Quicksort is an in-place sort? There is a compact version of Quicksort that uses an in-place partition algorithm, but the overall space usage is, as you say, O(log n).
In-place sorting algorithms are called so because only a constant number of elements are out of the input (probably an array) at any given time during the sorting process.
All sorting algorithms on random-access arrays require O(lg(n)) space. Consider the size of the array indices. It requires ceil(lg(n)/lg(2)) bits to represent an array index variable that can hold n distinct values. If your data is in a random-access array, you will need at least one such variable. Therefore, there is a minimum bound of O(lg(n)) on your space complexity, regardless of what algorithm you use.
Because this bound is rather fundamental (and typically not a problem), usually one does not bother mentioning it.
Note that mergesort cannot avoid this either. You can either have mergesort run in-place, in which case all merge phases (of which there are O(lg(n))) run in parallel for O(lg(n)) space complexity, or you do a non-in-place sort with O(n) space complexity, or you overwrite your input array, in which case you need that index variable again.