9) It will ask you to choose a filename. Make it something short, preferably three letters, such as, 'Asd'. 
That's it. This new file will have one page per screen. But the end result might have this problem: Filesize might be too big even if the original file was small. New file might be 200 mb. But this can be easily solved. Open the new file with Adobe Acrobat Professional, click Document, click Reduce file size and click ok. This might take a few minutes but it will reduce file size a lot to put it onto your kindle, mobireader whatever.
7) Now, don't right-click on an image this time, but MOVE these files onto the Adobe screen, just like you move a file to another folder, move it to 'Combine Files' screen which is already opened. 
You can use Briss to split multi-page PDFs into single page ones (or crop out whatever you want). It loads up all the pages at once and overlays them, so that you can see what portion of the page the text occupies.
We haven't done yet. We are done with the L folder. Now we have to do the same with R folder. However this time, we will crop right side of each page. But the most important thing is that when you are going to export images, you have to choose the same filename, that is, Asd. This is essential. Now anyway I'm explaining R folder in detail:
3) After you selected all the JPEG images (make sure you didn't also select Insomnia.Pdf) right click one of these images and then click 'Combine supported files in Acrobat'
Now it is time to combine both of those images. However if you don't follow my exact steps, you might have pages that goes like 2, 1, 4, 3, 6, 5 etc in the end. So do exactly as I say, don't do anything different.
6) Again, select all JPEG images, (make sure again Insomnia.Pdf is not included into selected files)
Here's one more option that worked for me, from this thread on the Adobe forums. Take a look at the second answer from Karl Heinz Kremer, who authored a handy little Action Wizard sequence/script. I downloaded the second link from his site ("Action File for Acrobat XI Pro"), and then imported into Acrobat (FWIW I did this on macOS Mojave 10.14.2, and Adobe Acrobat Pro DC 19.12.20034.328841). 
I know this is an old post, but I stumbled upon it while searching for the problem, and this is the solution I found for anyone searching about the same issue in the future:
After that, it was just a matter of finding the Action Wizard tool, selecting the new Split Pages action from the list, and hitting the Start button. My two page document was perfectly split into a new four page PDF, sitting right next to the original in my folder. I had to rearrange the page order, but that is a very quick fix in Preview if you're on macOS, just rearrange the thumbnails and hit save :)
The import step made me a little nervous since Adobe warns "The action has one or more steps that execute JavaScript. Do you still want to import the action?", but the .sequ file can be viewed in a text/code editor, and I was able to verify that there was no funny business going on (THAT DOESN'T MEAN YOU SHOULD SKIP THIS STEP THOUGH! Always review scripts/code before you run it whenever possible, or have a trusty geek do it for you if you're not a coder). 