Since I'm using TiledMap from Monogame Extended, I can't really modify the Tile class to hold collision data. My initial idea was to have an extra object or tile layer for each height level to specify collision/solids for each height level, but I found that it wasn't very intuitive and that it was a little messy. Optimally I would only need one tile layer per height level, but I'm at a loss for any ideas on how to handle collision in a scalable and intuitive way, so I was wondering if anyone here had any ideas?
I've been programming a final fantasy 6 clone in C# using Monogame and Monogame Extended, and have met on a few interesting challenges regarding tilemap collision.
Another interesting problem is regarding tile collisions and directions. For example, when standing in front of the fence in the picture below, you should not be able to walk up and behind the fence. But, if you are standing one tile above the fence, you should be able to walk down and behind it, but once you are behind it you should not be able to walk down again and end up in front of it.
The game seems to have different height levels on tilemaps, such as in the picture below where the bridge is on one height level and the ground on another. I'm using Tiled for my maps and have the bridge on it's own layer, and the ground on another. However, when it comes to collision, you shouldn't be able to for example walk up on the bridge and end up on the ground, which leads to the problem of collision detection. Collision for the ground level should be different than on another height level like the bridge, but I'm not sure what a good solution to handle that could be.
I think the solution to that problem is to define collisions on each edge of the tile, so that the bottom edge of the tile is marked as solid, while the other edges aren't. The main issue with that is that I have no idea how to implement something like that with Tiled. It also presents the problem of rendering, since the tile would need to be rendered below the player if the player stands in front of it, and above the player if the player stands behind it. I think using a Z-index would solve it, but again, I haven't found a way to implement that using Tiled. Soo, I was wondering if anyone has any ideas or pointers on how to use Tiled w/ Monogame + Monogame Extended to implement those things?