The question is regarding performance. This NAS will has 2 GigE network connections that will be BINDED at the switch to create 2Gig connection for the NAS to the servers.
I'm not entirely sure you'll find a server that takes 24 SFF disks in 2U and gets good enough cooling, I know the HP MSA70 SAS disk enclosure takes 25 SFFs in 2U but that doesn't have much logic behind it to have to cool via the limited air-draw options the disks cause.
In terms of performance, it comes down to what type of controller you're using. Processor speed, cache, etc. Assuming you're comparing apples with apples and the 24-port controller is faster with twice as much cache there isn't going to be any significant difference with the type of traffic you're talking about.
Ideally if you've got a really friendly hardware supplier, see if you can get both and do your own tests. Worst case, you might have to pay a restocking fee to return the one you don't use, best case - no charge or just return shipping :)
What configuration will be best in terms of performance? Will I get better performance out of two smaller arrays on separate controllers? Or just one big single one?
Think about a HP DL370 G6 - up to 2 x Nehalem Xeons, 144GB memory, 24 x SFF disks, redundant PSUs in 4U.
I'd recommend two smaller arrays for redundancy. If by some miracle one controller starts to fail (i.e. corrupting data to disk, so it won't be immediately obvious) then you haven't lost everything.
That many disks will be able to flood 2Gbps easily in any configuration - I'd be tempted to go RAID6 - you'll get 22 disks worth of storage instead of 12 and it'll easily keep up with its output channel.
Assuming proportional specs (i.e. if the one big controller has N Mb of cache, the two small controllers each have N/2 Mb), the only way you're going to get much benefit out of the split controllers is if your applications are capable of saturating the bus to the controller, or approaching doing so.  For 'typical VPS' hosting as your intended application, that seems very unlikely.  I'd say you're better off with the one big controller.