With any key, I have never used services from option 1. However, I have bypassed option 2. and 3. I just had to call a number, talk to someone and I had to enter some sort of validation. It's been a while since I've had to do that, but the process wasn't too complicated. They did ask why I replaced the board, and each time it was due to the board failing. All of the times I did this, I worked at a PC repair shop. I'm not sure what they would have said if it was just a board to upgrade to something new. 
Windows 7. And while it seemed to work for a couple of days. It now hangs for a very long time. Figuring I just go back to windows 7, it say my retail key is incorrect. I've got a call back at 10:30 am from Microsoft to reactivate the retail key that that came with the cd.
A very important note is vs osm vs retail is the retail version updates any updates that were added to the iso that you can download. I've installed an OEM version of windows and after it was installed, there were 287 updates,OEM version and  (177 on the retail version)then I installed windows 7 retail that was given to me by a close friend that works for Microsoft. I love the retail version, that I can download the latest version of windows 7 with all the updates. I know I can slip stream the updates to the OEM version of Windows (windows 7 professional in my case. ) retail version is just simpler in my option. 
Here's the catch. OEM copies CAN be reinstalled on different hardware. Microsoft even has support links on their website explaining how to do this. The key is to make sure that the license is fully deactivated and that only one copy of the OEM license is active at any given time. Link
To me, it was worth the extra bit of money to avoid some potential hassle, or possibly being denied a reactivation. 
If I am buying Windows 10 Professional for a small business and they need 8 copies for example, why would I buy an OS that is $60 more expensive per copy when there does not appear to be any obvious difference between them (other than maybe the OEM version may be more of a pain in the rear in the unlikely scenario that I need to swap out a failing motherboard).
I am having difficulty understanding why anyone would purchase the retail version of windows when the OEM version does not seem to be very different. For example, at the time of writing this, I see the difference on amazon to be $130 for the OEM license and $190 for the retail license.
Somewhere in the Terms and Conditions, there is a limit to how many times you can reactivate an OEM key. I don't know what the magic number is.  
After doing quite a bit of research, it looks as though OEM can only be installed one time, on one machine, and that this is the real advantage of the retail version, that it can be reinstalled multiple times.
I myself got the Windows 7 retail version when I built my PC several years ago so I wouldn't have to worry about reactivating if I changed hardware. With that one purchase. While on Windows 7, I had to RMA a motherboard once. I also took advantage of upgrading to Windows 10. I've upgraded my CPU and motherboard since then and had no problem with reactivation. 
As far as option 4. goes, I think the only time that worked well without having to get a new key is when Microsoft was basically letting anyone and everyone upgrade to Windows 10. 