Essentially just insert situations which firmly establish that always saying "yes" for the sake of the content is not the best course of action and could instead hinder your future play options. Gradually ramping up the absurdity of the NPC's decision making prompts or including an insta-death situation (with the option to go directly back to that box, of course) would cement the idea that your decisions have consequences.
Your NPC might say, "I'd like to go on this dangerous quest that will probably get me killed. I need to borrow the trans-dynamic hyper forcefield generator."
Possible combat situations? In the midst of battle, he goes to take a turn and instead vomits, inflicting minor damage to himself. You instruct him to use an item on you, but instead...
If you used either of the "yes" responses, (optional bet amount dialog box) then your companion drinks to the point of blacking out. In your adventures the next day, the NPC will be of varying degrees of uselessness (read: random value from a range based on last night's events).
Requiring the user to engage in this extra effort makes the action more meaningful to them, and it emphasizes that he is doing something out of the ordinary and that he could suffer a loss (obviously with respect to losing the generator, and more remotely losing the NPC).
Require the player to perform an in-game action other than simply clicking on an option or pressing a button.
The pub scene above or other similar bad decision making could result in the NPC explicitly ignoring your directions when adventuring.  
Not only does the above set a precedence for being careful with this guy, but in Tropico specifically they make sure that all options chosen at the very least have a comparable fun factor, so 'bad' consequences don't become as much of a burden through compensation by comedy. In addition, even when he screws up, Penultimo always feels he can turn it around somehow - an attitude which actively prevents reloading behavior.
Instead of 'no', offer the choice to do it later when stronger/better equipped/etc. - this makes it clear that the player won't be missing out gameplay/xp, but that this is an unnecessary challenge. You can improve this effect by wording the options appropriately: "Yes - we will be severely outmatched for no significant gain, but I'm up for a challenge!" against "No - we will come back to this when our equipment is more appropriate/we have disabled their defenses/they are asleep/..."
Though not strictly an RPG, Tropico handles this quite well through the character of Penultimo. Early in this game, this character - your closest advisor - will horribly screw up multiple times without your input, and you will feel the consequences. Only later he starts asking permission or providing options for his schemes.
To engage in the side quest, the player must go into their inventory, select the trans-dynamic hyper forcefield generator, and transfer it to the NPC.
Introduce the NPC's terrible character flaws early on with decisions which result in something less permanent or more easily backtracked. You could really have fun with it and write something which would be memorable, teaching the player to consider the downside more carefully and, as a bonus, make the game stand out.