Whether or not the IP you provide for the host object creation is used as glue may also be determined by the nameserver software the registry is running.  For example, BIND 8 will provide out-of-bailiwick glue while BIND 9 will not.
I have somedomain.com registered with Namecheap, and have successfully set up A records for ns1.somedomain.com and ns2.somedomain.com to be used as nameservers for other domains.
It may also be possible that the registry wants the IP by default but will not include out-of-bailiwick host records in the zone.  Or that the registrar (godaddy) requires the IP address but only submits it to the registry as needed; this may be the case since godaddy deals with multiple registries, and it's just easier to always ask for the IPs.  I don't really see that as a perversion.  Maybe they're just trying to keep things simple on their side.
And indeed, if I go back to namecheap's "Nameserver registration" section and give it the IP addresses of ns1.somedomain.com and ns2.somedomain.com, Godaddy will then allow me to assign those nameservers to otherdomain.me without issue.
Indirectly, yes.  You're really creating a host object in the registry which may or may not be used to create a glue record.
So, yeah, to answer your title question: A registrar asking for IPs to create out-of-bailiwick nameservers is not strictly necessary, but it may not be their fault.
Point 2 - In addition to the A records each nameserver also needs to have a glue record. Seems like you simply missed that step until prompted to do so by the GoDaddy system. This comes under the heading of expected behaviour.
I have otherdomain.me registered with Godaddy. When I go into Godaddy's interface and tell otherdomain.me that its nameservers are going to be ns1.somedomain.com and ns2.somedomain.com, Godaddy's interface complains that those nameservers are not registered.
For resolution it is not strictly necessary for the .me registry to require IPs for out-of-bailiwick nameservers, such as those in .com.  I'm not clear on whether "server-operator policies" supersede that.