When my company tried using 1and1 for a small website a couple of years ago, we quickly ran into a brick wall when we tried debugging the website on the cheapest plan available.  That plan didn't have SSH, so we had to pay for an upgrade.  But even then, the site's performance was so inconsistent that we had to switch to another hosting company.
As Geoff Fritz suggested, you can always make another plea in terms they're more likely to understand: $$$.  If the lack of shell access is slowing you down significantly, I'd suggest telling them up front how much extra time you're going to have to bill, as a result of the inconvenience.  If you're doing this as a fixed-cost contract, then unfortunately I think you're going to have to either run out into the country and scream every couple of hours, or find some other way to convince the customer that you need shell access.
Many of the "cheapo hosts" don't even offer shell access, and some require you to pay extra for SSH.  It might be the case that the customer already knows the host doesn't offer SSH, or the customer just doesn't want to pay for it.
I like shell access as much as any admin, but the customer always knows best.  Just bill your time, and if you take more time because not having shell access slows you down, then tell them that.
It sounds to me like you want absolute control of the system for no reason other than your personal satisfaction. You certainly haven't given an actual reason for wanting it.
Just keep sending them detailed bills containing all the extra time you've had to spend working around their stupid requirements.  If management won't back you, find another job.
What is your specific requirement for it?  Is is the convenience of doing stuff local on the web server, or are there legitimate risks of data going clear over the wire?  Can you connect with a remote mysql client (in which case, uou can try using the SSL option), or is it bound to the server's localhost or otherwise non-routable interface?  If sensitive data is a concern, you can set up a simple PHP-upload page and utilize HTTPS for your uploads.
Your job is to do as the customer asks, within the framework provided by that customer. Don't like it? Get another customer or change jobs.
You say that it's a very small project, yet you carry on as if you were trying to transfer gigabytes of data. If it takes a little longer to transfer the files using FTP the so be it. I'm guessing we're talking about maybe a couple of minutes, not weeks. As for importing MySQL dumps using phpMyAdmin, what's the difficulty? It's actually easier than using the command line.
To me, it does sound like you technically can do everything you need without shell access.  You can untar the files on your side and upload them in batch instead of uploading the tarfile and extracting the files on the other side.  PHPMyAdmin does, indeed, allow you to execute scripts and perform database dumps.  Maybe I'm missing the same point that the admin failed to catch.  If so, then perhaps you just haven't completely articulated the real problem that's preventing you from getting the work done.