Certificates last longer than SSL keys. SSL certificates are obtained from Certification Authority, which can be renewed regularly by banks and businesses. SSL keys or session keys, on the other hand, are uniquely generated during the session and discarded when the session ends.
Several SSL keys can be generated during a session. They are used to encrypt and decrypt the information being sent to and from the computer.The keys are used to verify that the information has not been modified or tampered with.
Think of it like this.  A Certificate is like a safety deposit box at your bank.  It contains a lot of important stuff; generally stuff that contains your identity.  The certificate has a public key and needs a private key to open it.
An SSL certificate is obtained from a trusted Certification Authority, which vouches for secure connection of the website . SSL certificates usually contain the logo of authentication and also the public keys necessary to encrypt and decrypt data that is to be sent to the computer.
Whenever I try to understand anything about SSL I always have a hard time keeping track of what "key" and "certificate" refer to.  I fear many people use them incorrectly or interchangeably.  Is there a standard difference between a key and a certificate?
With a safety deposit box, the banker's key is like the public key since it stays at the bank and the public key stays with the certificate.  You have the private key, which is needed to "get your certificate" and in the example of the safety deposit box, your private key is needed in addition to the public key as well.   
Before you can actually open your safety deposit box, you must first verify your identity (kind of like a certificate request); once you have been identified, you use your private key along with the public key to open your safety box.  This is a bit like making your certificate request, and then getting your certificate from the certification authority (as long as you can be identified (trusted) and you have the right key).