If you don't have a Linux test machine, consider downloading a Live CD to do the testing or someone else can comment and tell you how to do that in Windows.
Since you wanted all devices to communicate with each other, you shouldn't have them in different LANs rather use the same for all devices.
What I would do is disable the LAN DCHP Server on the Router2 and change the cable from WAN to LAN. (Cap WAN port)
So without resetting your cable or other configuration, just disable NAT on 2nd router. (On TP-Link it might show as 'Wireless AP' mode, not 'Wireless Router Mode'. 
Then try pinging 10.89.49.101 (to verify you can hit the wan interface of your router) and then try pinging something beyond it like 10.89.7.1.
I am not sure if answering this question will add any value to this problem as it was posted about 6 years ago! 
After carefully reviewing your diagram and reading answers above, I understand the configuration preventing both way communication. TP-Link type Consumer router (SOHO) expected to operate as stand alone internet gateway device most of time and to allow non-technical user to start using these devices NAT on LAN>WAN traffic set by default. On your network any traffic originating from 2nd router reaching open internet after having at least 2 destination NAT header on every packet. 
When you ssh on 10.89.49.Y network, traffic ssh-server host see connection originating from 2nd router's WAN interface (10.89.49.Y IP), 10.89.7.x actually never going out crossing 2nd router. 
Firewalling may be preventing traffic from the WAN interface from reaching the LAN.  Unless you have a reason to enable it, I would consider disabling the all firewalling on the device.  (Hopefully the manufacturer supports that).
The first thing I would suggest is plug in a test machine into the internet-connected router.  Manually give it an IP and set a route on it to the other router.
You leave clear with the address you are using on the routers and what you say: "I am able to connect from a wireless device to a wired device, for example SSH-ing from 10.89.7.X to 10.89.49.Y, but it doesn’t work the other way round"
Also, give it (Router2) a Router1 LAN IP Address on its LAN port, so you will be able to get to it via its HTTP Server
Lastly, check if the router has NAT settings.  If NAT is enabled it may be expecting you to explicitly set forwards for ports on 10.89.7.101 to machines and ports in 10.89.7.0/24.