I had the same problem with PuTTY and found that is was being caused by an application I have called "caffeine" which effectively presses the F13 key every minute to stop the screen saver from being activated (group policies prevent me from changing screen saver timeout on my machine). Disabling the application solved me problem.
Finally, the question is what causes these key inputs. Do you, by any chance, use a laptop which e.g. automatically controls the backlight using some proprietary software? I've seen some weird preinstalled software actually emulating the keypresses instead of using the API. You might want to use something like inputlog on yourself.
I recently started renting space on a remote server so that I could work on a project. I found that a relatively painless way to access it on a windows machine is through PuTTY. However, there is one thing that has always irked me when using it: for seemingly no reason random characters are sometimes inserted at the cursor.
Note: If the baud rate is set different than the default rate, odd characters are seen on CLI. Check table1 to set baud rates for different Confreg values.
Most of the time it is just a single tilde, but rarely it spits out what looks like some escape sequence ([[^8 or the like). It will only occur when I am focused on the window, whether I am typing or 20 feet away from the keyboard. If left for long enough, it will spit tildes at random intervals (average is about 1 minute).
Finally, this behavior seems to be inconsistant when running programs such as nano or the mysql interface: in nano, instead of inserting tildes, it will set marks (ctrl-^); in mysql, lines will become un-editable.
I'm not quite sure which keys have to be pressed to get this output, but I'll play around a bit and try to find out. Can you name any other sequence shown? The behaviour of mysql and nano might just be another interpretation of the escape sequences that seem to get entered.
My question is this: Has anyone else experienced this sort of behavior in PuTTY? And if so, what can be done to prevent/correct this behavior?
This really does look like an escape sequence, or control character, which might explain why you don't see it in other programs like notepad.