Do not try to change the wiring of the house on your own if you don;t have any experience in wiring electrical circuits. Many other appliances may stop working if you mess up or worse you might receive an electric shock if you do not know what you are doing
Third prong is a safety ground - to protect human life.  Power strip protector will not work - will not protect human life - if that safety ground does not exist.
Power strip must have a three prong receptacle to maintain human safety.  That third prong (safety ground) does nothing to make a protector circuit effective.
Check with a local electrician, in some cases you can loop the neutral to ground in a 3-prong outlet, giving a path to ground (although it isn't a clean path) but it may not meet electrical code in your area. If not, consider getting a single outlet added for your computer. In today's modern age, equipment with a ground plug need a ground and adding ONE outlet should not run thousands of dollars in most homes, a couple hundred maybe, but this is something most homeowners can do themselves with a $7 outlet and $20 box of wire. 
Battery in a UPS does not absorb excess energy or a surge.  Why does it take so long to recharge?  Because that same circuit is only 'assumed' to absorb a surge.  It is tiny - maybe the size of a one inch cube, 'wall wart', power supply.  Or read spec numbers to  learn how little that power strip and UPS do to protect hardware.
No, it's not the same thing or good enough... a surge protector and a UPS (which has a built in surge protector) each require a grounded outlet. In most commercial environments it is not recommended (possibly even against fire code) to have a UPS connected to a power strip/surge protector or to "stack" surge protectors. These grounded 3-prong outlets have been code in the US for over 50 years, long before electronics like this were common. 
I would like to emphasis the importance of safety and tell you what might happen in case of a fault in the power supply circuit.  
With a leakage current (or with the body energized), the body of the equipment is at a certain potential with respect to the ground. Motherboards (for example) operate at +12V and +5V DC potentials. Now whenever there is a faulty contact established between the body of the equipment and its component (in this case, the motherboard), it is going to see a potential something other than its operating voltage. This can harm the motherboard and it might stop working (in some cases - it happened with me!)  
In case where the earth pin is connected to the ground (earth), this fault current would flow to the earth (as it is the path of least resistance).   
An adjacent protector, to be effective, either 'blocks' or 'absorbs' energy - with or without that safety ground.
What if your PC was plugged into a UPS which in turn was plugged into a surge protector? Would this work? Couldn't the extra power be absorbed by the battery in the UPS? This may sound ridiculous, but I have no other options since I don't have thousands of dollars to rewire our old house. Before I rebuild my partially fried PC, I just needed to know. Thank you in advance.
Let us imagine that the line (L) (also called "phase") touches the body of the SMPS inside your computer, in that case the body of the computer gets energized. Any one coming in contact with the body of the computer (or with any metallic peripherals attached to it) may receive an electric shock.  If the person coming in contact is wet, this electric shock may prove fatal.
I was reading that a surger protector won't work if it is plugged into an ungrounded outlet. The reason why this wouldn't work is that the electricity has nowhere to go, from what I've read.