Here it is:  the failing login in question was a SQL Server login. Here is how we configured the SQL connection manager properties for old, new, and developer environments:
It seems we get a "Login failed" error when the package is attempting to execute multiple simultaneous SQL operations against the same SQL Server 2012 target database.
It would seem that if a second simultaneous connection is being opened while in the SQL 2012 Integration Services Catalog execution environment, only the connection string itself (of the initial connection?) is consulted, not Password or other constituent properties of the connection manager.  Therefore, Password has to be in the connection string. 
When we run the new SSIS 2012 packages from Visual Studio against the same target database (SQL 2012 on virtual Windows Server 2012), we do not encounter the error.  
These packages worked fine in SSIS 2008 targeting a SQL Server 2008 database, running on physical Windows Server 2003 servers. 
We have been working on migrating our library of SSIS packages from SQL Server 2008 hosted on physical Windows Server 2003 to SQL Server 2012 hosted on virtual Windows Server 2012.  The new packages we deploy using project deployment to an Integration Services Catalog.  The packages import data into another SQL Server 2012 database on a separate server/instance. 
This leads us to believe it has something to do with how they are deployed and run in the Integration Services Catalog, but we cannot figure out what is wrong.  Here is where we could use some help. 
First of all, we double-checked the database connection strings over in the SSIS package. The packages have database connection managers whose connection properties are bound to project parameters, which in turn are bound to environment variables in the Integration Services Catalogs. 
When we refactor a failing portion of a package to execute database operations one at a time instead of simultaneously, the error goes away. 
While this worked perfectly on the old SQL 2008 environment, and it was no problem from Visual Studio, it failed during simultaneous database operations from the SQL 2012 Integration Services Catalog, but started working when we added Password=****** to the connection string.
The common factor in all the errors seems to be that when multiple simultaneous SQL operations occur using the same database connection manager, we get this "login failed" error. 