Wendell Odom's website has a lot of great info, including lab equipment recommendations for CCNA and CCNP.
However if you can afford it there's nothing like getting your hands on real kit and getting used to the different physical cables, especially if you don't currently work as an engineer.  As the CCNA requires you to know stuff about the kit like how it boots, flash, moving config & IOS files around from tftp etc, then if you have some real kit you can take a look inside and have a go at upgrading the flash for example, which really helps the theory click into place.
If you're wanting to save a bit of money, you can use GNS3 for the routers and then just buy some switches. I have written a few blog posts about how you can connect virtual equipment to physical equipment. 
For maximum reliability, buy the real hardware if your budget allows. Expect to spend a fair amount of time figuring out how to get GNS3 to work, and handling exceptions. But even with the faults of the emulators, it's a good idea to consider GNS3 because it's possible to create all kinds of near-realistic scenarious quickly and cheaply.
I prefer the virtual router + physical switch approach over the full physical lab as it saves money, energy and power points :) It's also good because you can take your virtual router topologies with you everywhere you go.
One thing to bear in mind with the CCNA is that the vast majority of the things you need to play with are trivially done in Cisco Packet Tracer and GNS3 (especially since you can now get a switchport card working in GNS3 now). However, with that said, depending on how you learn, you might prefer to work with a physical setup, and if that's within your budget, go for it.
Packet Tracer and GNS3 are highly recommended based on the fact that you can get them at no cost. When using Packet Tracer it is also quite useful in familiarising yourself with what the exams sims are like.
I also started a Whirlpool thread a few years ago for those studying for the CCNA and CCNP certs. There is a lot of great info in there. We also turned it in to a wiki as well.
2500 series & 2950 Cat switches are probably the cheapest option that will do it but if you are serious about certification and want to go beyong CCNA level then you'll want to consider building your lab for the future.  So if you can afford it i'd recommend some 1841's for your routers as they are really reasonably priced nowadays on eBay and then (again if you can afford it) get some 3350 switches which you can then load IOS capable of L3 switching and routing protocols. 
In any case, I'd definitely recommend against foregoing any sort of usage of PT/GNS3, not least because something like GNS3 can actually be used to augment your lab setup - hook it up to your physical gear and run wild.
I just got my CCNA not more than 2 wks ago, and the only hardware I purchased was a C2950 for $30. Everything else was virtual. Both GNS3 and Packet Tracer are helpful overall, but neither is without its bugs. I preferred GNS3, simply because it's easier to connect a virtual GNS3 network to real hardware (like my C2950), or arbitrary virtual hosts (like Qemu or VMWare guests). But I will say this: doubt instead of trust in the correctness of the simulation software can really slow down your learning.The actual C2950 hardware either worked as expected, or somewhere I made a mistake. But with GNS3 for example, you have to ask yourself whether you made a mistake or the software did.