there's a variety of load balancing options. (round-robin DNS, mod_proxy_balance, commercial load balancers.) I'm sure one of them suits your needs, however load balancing adds another layer of complexity to your set up. you need to make sure you can manage that too and realize that you may be shifting your single point-of-failure to a load balancer instead of an individual web server.
you can manage multiple servers using something like Puppet or cfengine, if administrative cost is an issue. again, another layer of complexity, but one that will be well-worth in the long-run should you ever plan to scale up ANY of your resources.
FWIW, if you need to economize, you should still get server grade hardware. Entry-level servers can be purchased at very reasonable prices, and would still be a step up from low cost desktop machines.
Okay, there's a reason that server grade equipment exists, and hasn't yet been universally replaced by cheap commodity desktops.
If you want to give your hard work away, more power to you but don't expect me to do the same and don't hit me over the head if I don't. I don't have any social or moral obligation to give my work away for free. If I give to charity on a personal basis that's my business but I shouldn't be expected to give my labor, intellect, ideas, or methods away to any business entity that wants them. Being in business costs money, that's just the way it is.
Can you use the desktops? Sure, but you will never get better than desktop performance out of them. And this isn't just referring to CPU speeds & amounts of RAM. Good server hardware is built like the proverbial "brick you know what", and is designed to keep working under conditions that the average desktop machine won't sustain.
Buy just the one server instead of four desktops.  The management overhead (time, resources, etc.) are well worth the extra up front cost of buying a good server instead of four different cheap machines.  It may look cheaper up front, but once you add in management costs over the long run the server may end up being a way better deal.
That being said, there are times when a desktop is okay, and the best case for that is when you absolutely cannot obtain server hardware. But if you're spending money already, you'll get better long-term performance from hardware designed for the task.
@neoice: Yes, I would apply that to open-source. Capitalism, with all it's warts, wasn't built on open-source and the idea of everyone giving and getting everything for free. Where did this idea that intellectual property should be made available at no cost to anyone who wants it come from? Can I get an open-source automobile or loaf of bread? Why do people think that the rules of capitalism shouldn't apply to intellectual property?
personally, I'd go with multiple, cheap servers. I like having redundancy and I dont think the simplicity of having 1 server outweighs that.