If that fails, try contacting the telephone company.  They may be able to perform some troubleshooting of certain issues (like, for example, water in the phone lines) in ways that you cannot do nearly so easily or inexpensively.
CRC errors are bad, and the fact that those are near end means they are errors the modem picks up on the incoming signal - meaning that the frames coming into the modem are damaged in some way and the modem must request they be resent, which slows down your connection. Upstream margins are also getting a bit high which can lead to instability. You didn't show the rate at which the modem is synced - that can help with diagnosis. Mostly what this looks like is line trouble.
Put the filter and split the phone/DSL at the point where it comes into you house. Best would be inside the telephone company box if you can. Check out what the box is. Amazon has a few filters than can be used outside or will fit in a teleco box.  
If that's no getting you anywhere, then try to provide us with newer details based on what else you've figured out (like what else didn't work).
If you see no further errors, then the issue is the wiring between the posts on the NID and the wall jack. I'd first replace the jack in the wall, and then if that doesn't work, try replacing the cable.
I know that might sound like Voodoo (trying randomish stuff), but really it is known to work in many cases.  For instance, the issue might be that some equipment on the phone company's end had an temporary issue and negotiated a lower speed with your equipment.  A modem power cycle is the fastest and easiest way to resolve the problem.  Things may negotiate again and work fine.
If you do still see errors at the test jack, then the issue could be the modem or more likely is an issue between the DSLAM and the test jack. This is the point where you call your ISP and ask them to do a plugged/unplugged test (validates the modem) and a line test. They'll see what error codes they receive and go from there.
Depending on how many jacks and how long all the lines are that DSL signal is getting split and unlike the low frequency of a voice phone call all those jacks add a lot of impedance to the high frequency DSL signal.
The first thing you want to test is a connection directly to your NID. Find the box where it comes into the house of the street - there will be a test jack on the circuit that your DSL is on. You might need to run an extension cord to get power out there - so plan how to do that before you start moving things around (makes your life easier). Plug the modem in to the test jack and then plug a laptop directly into the modem. Watch the stats on the modem for several hours and see if the errors continue. 
You can test to see if this would help you by finding that point where you telephone enters the house and removing all other lines/jacks and direct connecting the DSL modem to the main feed line from the teleco. Make sure only the Modem is plugged in. Any other lines will still cause potential problems.