This ended up being a very useful tool for locating and isolating malware infected computers as well as blocking bandwidth hogging or security policy related traffic without having to work with router access control lists.
The IDS/IPS rules are updated automatically (default) or can be updated manually.  I find that it's IDS/IPS rules are pretty manageable as well via it's web interface.  I think it's ease of management is due to breaking down the protection into protection profiles which you then assign to rules on the firewall.  So rather than looking at all the rules on every packet on the network you get much more focused protection and alerts.
The system that I ended up choosing was the IPS from Tipping Point.  We still like it after being in place for several years.  Our implementation includes the subscription to their Digital Vaccine, which pushes out vulnerability and exploit rules weekly.
The system was to provide an easy to manage and monitor (something that could be handed off to a second tier help desk person).  Automated alarming and reporting were also needed.  
We've been using a Fortigate unit where I work for the past year and have been really happy with it.  It does a lot more than just IDS/IPS so it may not be exactly what you're looking for but it's worth a look. 
The system has been very useful to watch what is going on (alert but take no action) as well as automatically block or quarantine systems.
I think any IDS/IPS system has to be custom tuned to your environment to see any real benefits. Otherwise you just get flooded with false positives.  But IDS/IPS will never replace proper firewalls and server hardening.
Sourcefire has a good system and they have components that help discover when new unexpected traffic starts emanating from a system.  We run it in IDS mode rather than IPS mode because there are issues where legitimate traffic might be blocked, so we monitor the reports and overall it seems to do a pretty decent job.
To have a good IDS, you need multiple sources. If an IDS has multiple alerts from multiple sources for the same attack, it will be able to fire an alert that has a whole lot more meaning then just a standard alert.
This is why you need to correlate output from HIDS (Host IDS) such as OSSEC and NIDS (Network IDS) such as Snort. This can be done using Prelude for example. Prelude will agregate and correlate alerts to be able to generate real security warnings that have a lot more meaning. Say per example you have a network attack, if it stays a network attack, it's probably nothing too bad but if it becomes a host attack, that wil trigger appropriate alerts with a high level of importance.