The two free slots leave me with some options should I want to change what I want to do with the OS+Application zpool and the 1st tier zpool.
For the OS and the application I plan to use a zpool that consists of one mirror vdev built from the two 300 GB disks.
I am planning for hardware that will be used for log management purposes. The software we plan to run on top of the hardware supports tiering and the plan is to go with three tiers as follows:
Also, with the 3x6 zpool (2nd tier) I believe I would achieve the best possible outcome taking both available storage and fault-tolerance into account.
For the 1st tier of storage I plan to use a zpool that consists of a mirror vdev built from the two SSD disks.
However, the questions really come up with the external direct-attached storage. Only the 1st tier (SSDs) are hit with constant writes of new logs coming in, and the tiers 2 and 3 only see logs transferred in and out once per day when the application checks for logs that exceed the retention set for the tier on which they current reside. Would larger disks - say 4TB and even bigger - disks be an issue if the DAS would be built from RAID-Z2 vdevs? Or would it be better to go with mirror vdevs? I have understood that resilvering would be less of a hassle with mirroring compared to RAIDZ-2.
For the DAS my options seem to be either Dell MD1420 or MD1400. The latter will give me more options with bigger (and slower/cheaper) disks, whereas the former would limit my choices to 2.5" disks. I guess in theory I could also have the option to with 3.5" disks in the server chassis itself if there is an option into where 12x3.5" disks + 4x2.5" disks can be fitted. Once again, the 2nd tier (with the SSDs being the 1st tier) would not see continuous writes nor reads but could still see reads quite often during working hours when logs older than 7 days need to be retrieved. However, I do not really possess the sufficient knowledge to make the decision whether something cheaper than 10K drives would suffice for this 2nd tier.