If this is successful, then you can use GP to globally adjust the permissions, or you can put a CACLS command in the login script.  
My predecessor(s) went to great lengths to lock down the desktops. I assume to try to prevent users from accidentally installing viruses and such (Their efforts failed I might add). This appears to be the reason the SIS cannot automatically update each desktop without an administrator logged in. After a recent update its become worse. Now users can't even use the program as normal without elevated privileges, let alone install updates.
I work part time as a network/system administrator for a small school. The school uses a commercial student information system that gets updated quarterly. After the server is updated users cannot access the SIS without an administrator manually running the update installer on each machine. Its been this way for as long as anyone can remember.
If the Windows computer is joined to an Active Directory domain there might be AD Group Policies that are restricting each user. It's a very efficient way to lock down desktops.
I'm assuming the security setting(s) I need to change are define in group policy editor but I can't seem to find where. Any help would be appreciated.
Being unable to locate the setting(s) that are restricting the users, I've had to manually add each user to the administrators group for their own local machine. Of course, this means if one malfunctions that user can't use another user's machine until I get it repaired.
Much of the time, local admin privileges are needed to run a program only because the program writes or updates data in the "Program Files" folder.  This folder is generally read-only for non-admins.  Typically config files are the culprit!
P.S. In case you haven't guessed, I'm not trained in Windows administration. I've learned enough by reading help files to get by but my day job is software development.
I suggest an experiment.  Use a local admin to grant all users full rights to the folder into which the program is installed.  Then try and run it, and try and run the update installer.