TCP is a partnered protocol with the IP protocol.  The TCP protocol provides what is referred to as the transport layer of the TCP/IP suite.  The transport layer consists of the TCP and UDP protocols.  TCP provide state and delivery confirmation packets that are sent over IP.  UDP is stateless and really only provides a lightweight mapping of IP addresses to port numbers, it gets used a lot in streaming applications or where fast and small is better than reliable.
Again, bottom line, IP doesn't know what order your packets belong in.  I only understands how to get the packet from here to there. 
Depending on the implementation of TCP at the sending system packets 3 and 4 again to ensure that they are received.  The time before resend is based on timing built into the implementation of TCP on the computer and can change based on the speed of the network and the performance of the link.  Over time if you have an unreliable link the number of packets that will be sent without ACK of previous packets will get smaller.
Bottom line up front the IP protocol has no concept of what the order of your data is.  IP packets are individual entities with no relation to each other.  The IP protocol's only responsibility is to get the packet from point A to point B.  It can deal with packet fragmentation that has occurred because of smaller MTUs in transit then at the sender, and it will put fragments back together at the receiver, but it has no tool with which to order your data.
TCP provides some the key functionality of making sure that you receive all of your packets.  Once the two clients establish a TCP connection every packet that is sent between the two of them is accounted for as it arrives, based on a sequence number and the packet length.  This is done with the Sliding Window Data Transfer and Acknowledgment system.  
The key to the system is that each acknowledgment packet from the receiver only acknowledges the last packet received in a continuous stream from the sender.  So if packets 1, 2 & 4 arrive at the sender they are passed to TCP from IP without any processing.  However, TCP will only ACK receipt of up to packet 2 (and implicitly packet 1), because it can tell that there should have been a packet 3 based on the sequence number and the packet length.  