You would not be the first person to have issues with ownership of the root nameservers.  Alternate sets of root DNS servers exist.  If you are running your own DNS server on your network, you could simply swap out your root hints with this list.
If you don't trust ICANN much, how much do you trust the registrars that are responsible for maintaining the various TLDs?
Suppose that I wanted to host my own DNS server based on the presumption that for whatever reason, I am unable to access ICANN's personal servers. Is there some sort of hosts file, or global DNS that I can download with the list of currently indexed and assigned addresses, and if so, where can I obtain this?
Say you wanted to go to www.example.com.  Your computer needs to know the destination IP address.  Using the root.zone file, you would be able to identify the nameservers responsible for all .com domains.  Your computer then has to ask the .com nameservers how to resolve example.com.  The .com nameservers will help you identify the servers responsible for all example.com sites.  Your computer then has to ask the example.com name servers for the IP address of www.example.com.
You mean the root.hints file? There is no database for all addresses / domains. DNS is a distributed Database. 
I'm pretty new to network administration, so bear with me. I haven't undertaken a task like this before. Most I've done before is screwed around with my Hosts file.
Note that in the real world, no one ever uses root.zone directly, and it can go out of date at any time.  Instead, there are "root hints" servers that you can query to get this information.
I think the root.zone file would provide what you are looking for.  It contains all of the recognized Top Level Domains (.com, .net, .gov, .us, .ru, .cn, etc), along with the name servers IP addresses that service those TLDs.
Keep in mind the root.zone file only gets you one layer deep.  As others have pointed out, DNS is a hierarchical, distributed database.  There is no central list of every IP address in the world (not feasible).
If your running Linux install dig and see for yourself with dig networkengineering.stackexchange.com +trace
If your DNS server hasn’t cached the answer it will ask one of the root servers . for the com name server. After that your DNS server asks the .com name server for the stackexchange name server and then will ask the stackexchange name server for networkengineering. 