The router will be necessary to cover any external connectivity between the world and your internal network. Similarly, you'll want a firewall, and possibly VPN too, to allow you to get access when you're not in the office. In a similar small shop we used Fortigate boxes to accomplish much of this. Plug your T1/T3, etc into the external side, and your switch into the internal side. It'll handle routing, firewalling, scan mail, etc. This will also handle the VPN to your webhost.
2- You should consider having your servers hosted in a co-location center.  Jeff talks a bunch about this in the stackoverflow blog.  Then you don't need a cabinet (or cooling, or a UPS), will need less bandwidth at the office, and will get better performance on the website.
The UPS should include surge protection, just be sure to pick a model that will give you the time you need to either get everything running again, or shut it down.
My immediate thoughts.  First, the kind of hardware you need is dependent heavily on things like, how much downtime you can afford, how many concurrent users you will have, etc.  That said, I would say at a glance that you are on the right track although there are definitely specifics that need addressing.  As for your specific questions, you need to make sure that whatever firewall you get has VPN capabilities that are compatible with whatever hosting provider you use for your website.  Talk to your sales representative there to see what you need.  You really don't want to rely on a Windows VPN service for a mission critical always on VPN.  A switch is a switch, unless you feel that you are going to need to do network segment partitioning for security reasons, make sure it is GigE and that it is 24 port and from a reputable vendor, and you should be good.  You need a router if you want to connect to any external network including the internet.  I have never seen a UPS unit that was not surge protected, it would be a very odd thing indeed if you found one.  Make sure that whatever UPS you get has enough battery life to shut your servers down safely and has an agent to connect to your operating system.  The main difference between cat5 and cat6 are their ability to handle long cable runs and electrical interference.  You probably don't need cat6, but I think that the cost difference is fairly minimal at this point, so you might as well go with it.  On the software side, you will need some kind of backup software that can handle both the database and whatever you are using for email (Exchange in particular requires a special agent to backup correctly) I haven't worked with Server 2008, but no previous version of Windows has had a built in backup that can handle these things correctly.  Sorry to be so long winded and I hope some of that helps.
Personally, you might want to consider getting hosted email, it can save a lot of time and hassle. Email is generally considered vital to an on-line business and outages are serious enough that the cost of hosting more than covered any potential failure.
Last time I checked SBS wasn't upgradable if you ever grow, you'll need new licenses. We always tried to avoid it as a product.
Again, buying the cable made up, and getting it fished professionally through the office can be a great time-saver. I've made cable before, and bought it. In the server room buy lots of short ones, in the office get it installed properly.
I would get a Layer 3 switch such as one Cisco or NetGear provides which gives you some flexibility with regards to your ports. This is basically a router as well. You can get a switch that has the firewall/VPN built in as well but I would recommend against that as it makes that part of the network hard to upgrade.
Your internet provider will provide a "router" for you. We use our firewall/VPN to replace that router and be the gateway from our switch to the internet.
24 port switch - Going to need all 24 ports? The all metal NetGears are pretty reliable and simple to use.