DHCP, with persistence both in the server (by reservations and re-issuing leases to the same address when it recognizes a MAC it has seen before), and client (by the client requesting the same IP it had it was last in operation) tends to make a network seem more static.
Yes you can use link local or APIPA addresses and you would have a fully functioning network. It might not be the easiest network to use, depending on your requirements. 
From what I understand, using NAT every computer would be able to know on which port to send a frame directed towards a specific IP address.
There are certainly applications where that is less of a problem,  such as Microsoft's SMB, where the SMB protocol has its own built in machine naming protocols.  But even Microsoft is evolving to use just DNS in that role.
But does Link Local protocol work for multiple hosts. Let's say that I would like to build an office Network WITHOUT access to Internet at all. If I have approximately 30 Hosts would a router bring any benefit to it or it is the same if I use let's say 7 switches and let every computer get its IP address using Link Local.
You would definitely be better off investing in a router. Even a cheap modern (or old) home router provides you with a lot of functionality, as well as they are easy to set up.   In my opinion, a $20 router will pay for itself with DHCP and name resolution alone. You might never touch any of the advanced functionality, but it's there if you need it. 
If I install printers on the Network and File Storage Servers would the application protocols that normally discover servers on the network work the same ?
I have used Link Local protocol several times but only to link two computers or a computer and another device to transfer files via FTP.
This has the side effect that machines' address can change over time, and machines on the network reboot.  This may make some applications more difficult.  For instance you don't want your FTP server jumping around.
You can do what you want with Link Local assigned addresses.   But such addresses are assigned based on pseudo-random numbers and testing to see if an proposed address is already in use.