What I ended up doing was sharing the printer from the client (\client\printerName), then mapping the share on the server through the add printers wizard.
If you're using the MSTSC (microsoft terminal services client) to remote into a remote machine, it should attempt to share the printer through the RDP protocol, and automatically create it on the other side. 
Sometimes, even when you have everything set up correctly, and things "should work", they don't.  I just ran into this with a Win2k8 server and Win7 client that we were trying to setup local printing for.  I figured I'd share my fix...
I had an HP printer connected via USB to the client, but print jobs initiated through the RDP connection on the server would fail.
This process can fail when the printer's driver isn't installed, and the "Terminal Services Easy Print" driver is not installed.  The easiest way is simply to install the same driver on the server that is used on the workstation.  (The name of the driver is VERY IMPORTANT... otherwise it considers it a different printer.  Things like "HP Laserjet 4000" and "HP Laserjet 4000 (ms)" are treated as 2 different printer models & won't map the printer driver)
You need to install the printer drives onto the server.  To do this, go to the Printers control panel, then go to File->Server Properties->Drivers.  At that point, add each driver that you need for the clients.
I'm not 100% sure, but I believe the 2008 server has the "Terminal Services Easy Print" driver turned off by default.  Simply turn it on and in theory all printers that don't have the driver installed, will default to the easyprint driver.  In reality, I've had lots of troubles trying to make it work in XP 100% correctly.  There are several known problems with it, and I would suggest you look at installing the "manufacturer's driver" rather than relying on the easy print driver.
At a minimum for XP... make sure you install XP SP3 & Dot-net 3.5 to make "Terminal Services Easy Print" mostly work.