If you really want to have Active Directory for every customer, the best solution is separate AD forest for every organization with NO trusts between them.
You deff want them in separate forests.  This is by far the industry standard.  If something went wrong, and this was a contributing factor, then you may have some liability issues because you're not following what is generally considered the industry standard.
But if your customers are mostly 5 PC companies which probably have no servers in office, you should avoid having Active Directory all together.
One thing I've seen some orgs do is have what used to be called a red forest.  I believe MS is now calling it an ESAE (Enhances Security Administrative Environment). There are trade-offs here.
Also option 1 comes with previously proposed solution to use Azure AD and cloud-based device management solution.
Since Active Directory isn't designed for multi tennancy, we are currently evaluating trust relationships.
Technically it is possible to have a single domain across several organizations. But in your case is not a viable solution and a very bad idea.
You should NOT create a single forest between all your customer domains or make any trusts. This is because customers do not have to access each other resources (hence no need for a trust)
If you need to simplify how you manage and administer the IT assets and infrastructure for your clients then you should invest in a quality RMM.
It's much easier to go with option 1 and just get your profit from selling plans, skipping all expenses which come with option 2.
2) Hosted Exchange on your servers. You become Service Provide and support all servers, infrastructure, security, etc. This requires investment and management  expenses and only makes sense if you have a large base of customers
Try researching device management solutions (e.g. Microsoft Intune) and move your customers to a cloud management platform (e.g. Azure Active Directory)
I've worked for and with a number of Managed Service Providers and none of them do this. There are a litany of reasons why this isn't a good idea.