On the content side you'll have to be aware that not implementing IPv6 will hurt your customers as CGN and other transition mechanisms will increase IPv4 latency. See this talk on youtube.
IF your ISP, or destination ISP, or whoever in between does not deliver you any kind of translation than yes. 
In general I'd say yes, for the same reason as last answer and because we expect greater use in IPv6 in the future.
Essentially, there is no way to directly connect IPv4 network to IPv6 network unless there is someone (switch, routers,etc) who speaks both 'languages'.
Its worth noting that as IPv4 ran out, some ISPs still do not make good use of IPv6 and keep using bad IPv4 solutions such as Carrier Grade NAT (CGN) to aggregate more costumers on a single IPv4 address. It creates a lot of issues, the main one is for making it difficult for costumers to, for example, play certain kind of games or services that rely on port forwarding.
All internet is based over IPv4, immediate change to IPv6 is impossible due to its hugeness. So IPv6 adoption must be done gradually. So, there is gonna be a period of transition and coexistence between 6 and 4. We already on this period of time and we should expect more IPv6 networks in the future.
If your provider supports IPv6 and you are using external service which use IPv6 and your provider also supports IPv6 everything should work as usual.  There was a BLOG post by a big German VoIP provider complaining that many of the access provider where using this new IPv6 stuff and NAT'ing IPv4 so their VoIP product would fail. The solution was simple: Implement v6. But complaining seemed to be easier. 
Service providers (CDN, etc.) will continue buying/renting IPs, like they've done until now... until the price gets too high. 
For example, we need someone who translates our communication between our IPv4 only network and the IPv6-only destination website network. The translation can be done by your ISP, the destination's ISP or whoelse in between both of you.
If your running some kind of service (NAS, SSH, ..) at home you'll most probably have ho IPv4 access when your provider uses CGN. 
During the experience you told, it seems like a Tor node did the job of translation IPv6 to IPv4 for your IPv6 only network.
If you are using some external service like VoIP, VPNs  or computer games which only offer IPv4 you may / will have some significant performance degradation or no service at all (somewhere between "works", "works sometimes", "does not work"). 
As stated in the other answers many providers will implement some for of Carrier Grade NAT (CGN). So you share an IP address with several other users,. If these providers take care and don't overload their NATs you'll notice not much if you only use HTTP(S), SMTP, ... If he dose overload his CGN you can find an example how google maps looks like in this presentation.
What happens, depends on the country and telco. Most probably outcome is, that the cheapest internet packages (for end users) will be behing carrier-grade NAT, and power-users will be able to pay a few $/€/... more to get a public IP. Since alot of users have no idea what a public IP is, they wont pay for it.