As everyone else here has already answered:  NO!  We use Systems Centers Essentials to push updates to production web servers, only AFTER they've been installed on test servers.
You could consider a staged rollout - patches released on tuesday are installed straight away on a test environment and scheduled to be installed thursday on the production servers, say, giving you two days for problems to show up in the test environment that point to blocking or delaying a particular patch.
I don't think it's a matter of "allow updates" and "don't allow them" being right or wrong, by the way, it's simply a matter of picking what risks and inconveniences you are prepared to take. There are risks for allowing updates to go on automatically and there are risks if you don't. Balance them out and make an informed choice.
Absolutely not.  Updates should be applied to servers during off-hours, and with contingency plans in place -- meaning enough time to roll back the update if it fails.  
We also get the monthly update emails from MS so that we know exactly what each update is and what its for.  It makes it much easier to troubleshoot if you know exactly what got updated and when.
On a sidenote, we just got a new cluster of five machines via our service provider, a very large and well-known ISP from this part of the world.  When we got the administrator accounts and could log in and start setting up our software, I was quite pleased to see that this usual first task was already taken care for me by the network sysadmins. :)
As a sysadmin you want to have as many variables as possible under your control.  It's hard enough without arriving in the morning to a dead server!  ;-)
If high availability is that much of an issue then you should be using clustering or load balancing as appropriate anyway, which should cover for downtime due to patching anyway. After all, why is downtime due to patches somehow magically worse than the hardware failures that can occur on any one box at any time?
Definitely not.  Been taught the hard way too many times not to let this nonsense happen.  Unfortunately, it does mean that one is a bit lazier about applying patches and updates.  But so far, I've yet to have a server broken into because I didn't apply some particular patch right away, but I have had a great many headaches caused by a server rebooting at an inconvenient time, or by rebooting and failing to start some essential service after installing a patch.
I allow automatic updates, but do so via WSUS. This enables you to pick and choose the class of updates you want applied automatically so that you don't get interruptions for trivia you don't care about but you do get patches for Day 0 exploits as soon as possible.