What means do you use to get your game dev book fix? Do you pony up the big bucks for the thick books, or do you budget yourself and buy one at a time, or do you rent or limit yourself only to your library? Do you prefer to read them on your eBook reader?
Inter-Library Loan - you're not just limited to your local library system, but they can get almost any book from any other library (in the US anyway). It's not as good as owning a given book, granted, but at least you can read it, get the information (maybe decide if it's worth buying).
I usually buy from Amazon or one of their used book associates.  For some reason, I have a hard time reading a PDF versus a real book when it comes to learning new material.  
A lot of the books on amazon have used options at significant discount.  Unfortunately, many of the new or hot books won't be much cheaper (e.g. Game Programming Gems).  Most of the books I buy aren't game-specific, though, and some are old.  The Fowler/Beck Refactoring book, for example, is $53 new and $25 used.  Smalltalk 80: The Language is $36 new and .. $5 used (haha).
Before purchase, I check if the information is readily available on the Internet and try to figure out what the book might be revealing which isn't readily available. If I buy a book I'm always thinking that, compared to alternative learning solutions like University or Seminars, books are comparably cheap. And the value it adds to my knowledge base over time can't even be expressed in money.
In over 15 years I've spent about $5,000 on educational and programming books. If I hadn't done so, I might not be here, I might not have had the great jobs I had. That's how I look at it. Money is a short term thing you best invest into yourself. Books are a very cheap way to learn from experts in their fields.
But you never know what you might find.  Real Time Rendering 2nd edition hardcover is $55 new and $12 used.  Good book, nice price.
I don't find most of them expensive, but that's subjective. Also, cheaper doesn't mean less valuable and I'm not a fan of the Programming Wisdom books, since they are expensive even to my mind because only little of each book is of any use to me. 