What you're seeing there looks, to me, like it could be a statistical issue. It might not be, @BillThor's answer could well be right, but I'll post this for completeness.
That suggests that there is a change in the profile, and you possibly have 2 distinct types of clients:
The more I look at it, the more I'm inclined to think that there's a problem with the data collection.
First off, there is something really weird going on with your TPS. While the overall pattern looks normal, there is a very sharp break occurring at about 9pm, and then again at about 7am. A normal chart will be much smoother during the transition to off-peak hours.
At this stage I would do a deep dive into the logs to find out what is different about the 18:00 low-volume samples compared to the high-volume samples before and after it.
An alternative explanation is simply caching. If a given script / database / whatever has not been used recently, the relevant cached data may have been dropped in order to free up memory for the rest of the operating system. This might be indexes on a database, or O/S buffers in relation to a file, or anything else similar. A query is then going to have to reconstitute this information if it has been a while since the last query. In busy periods this won't occur as the last query will have been frequent. This would also explain why you are seeing low response times and high response times during the busy period.
Though @BillThor's answer may be correct, it seems unlikely that the period of low load is entirely taken up by backup processes (i.e. that the periods match precisely).
The second hint is around 18:00. Most of the time before and after, we have the high volume profile--high TPS and low latency. But at around 18:00 there is a sudden drop from 800-1000 RPM to less than 400 RPM. What could possibly cause that?
BTW, the 18:00 "event" is enough evidence for me that it's nothing to do with data center congestion/activity. For that to be true, the congestion would have to cause a drop in TPS, which is possible at 18:00 but extremely unlikely to be causing a sustained, and smoothly curving drop in TPS for 10 hours between 9pm and 7am.
So the step-down in the 5th percentile says to me that there is a sudden break in the series, and the service time has actually dropped even though both the variance and the average response times have greatly increased.
The third hint is the step-down in the 5th-percentile response times. I actually prefer to look at the min response times (but the 5th percentile is possibly better) for two reasons: It tells me service time (i.e. response time minus queueing), and response times tend to follow a Weibull distribution which means that the mode (or the most common value) is just above the minimum.
If you assume that the number of slow requests isn't a linear function of request volume, such that an order of magnitude increase in requests doesn't result in an order of magnitude increase in slow requests, then higher volumes of requests will result in lower average request time.
The response time graphs are percentile based.  A sample pool of 800-1000 requests is a good sample count for this, a pool of 50-100 requests maybe not so much.