But the above will handle your highlighting if you populate the () in your SUM() as I'm guessing. Doesn't extend the answer to addressing your larger task, just the highlighting you ask about.
This is part of a broader capability no one seems to be exploring. I can create Named Ranges that I can append () to and enter whatever I like inside the parentheses the same as arguments in a "real" function. A couple supporting Named Ranges then give me a Named Range that looks and acts like a function programmed into Excel, like SUM() is, with any arguments I choose. Favorites here for co-workers include ourLOOKUP() (company name, not "our") taking INDEX/MATCH arguments and putting them into a function built like VLOOKUP().
You can create the conditional formatting ("CF") rule for any single cell BUT do it while IN that cell:  while that cell is selected, then copy the cell and paste formats to any other cell you wish to include in the CF.
That becomes the material for FIND() to look for in the SUM() function you are adding cells to. FORMULATEXT() is used to get the text of that formula and since "SUM(" and ")" are not part of any acceptable cell reference, nothing need be done about them and FIND() will just be searching amongst the cells referenced between the parentheses. IFERROR checks to see if it failed, giving 0 as a result if so because FIND() cannot produce a 0 result. That means you either get some positive integer, or 0 from this step.
The formula uses ADDRESS() to create a textual cell reference for whatever cell is selected and so whatever cells the CF is eventually laid over. Then it uses INDIRECT() to make that a "real" cell reference. Finally, it uses SUBSTITUTE() to remove the $'s (give you "A1" not $A$1").
The above assumes you know the cell in which the formula you are examining resides. It uses $C$1 but of course you can change it to be any cell you wish.
Lastly, the CF checks that against being 0, and if it is NOT 0, it highlights the cell however you like.
I am picturing that you have the cell with the SUM() formula and are populating the cells it references directly. If you have a list you are typing somewhere, you can refer to it directly when making your CF formula.
SO UDF's essentially, without knowing VBA much or running into places where VBA is not allowed to be used.