SE Linux is not as hopelessly unfriendly as it used to be, at least it's not in commercially supported distros like RHEL5. For the most part you can leave it on, and it'll be fine with anything provided by RedHat. With anything else it can be variable. The problem is that professional service work to get applications working with SE Linux enabled is a nice revenue stream for companies like RedHat and Oracle, so they have no incentive to make everything work nicely ootb.
The only exception is about the user contexts: if you are changing between different users living inside another linux instance running in a chroot you could have issues.
RedHat turns SELinux on by default because its safer. Nearly every vendor that uses Redhat-derived products turns SELinux off because they don't want to have to put in the time (and therefore money) to figure out why the thing doesn't work. The Redhat/Fedora people have put in a massive amount of time and effort making SELinux more of a viable option in the Enterprise, but not a lot of other organizations really care about your security. (They care about their security and the security reputation of their product, which is a totally different thing.)
We used Puppet for our configuration management system, and we wrote configuration for Puppet to manage all this.
It will not interfere with the running application and it will still provide useful security logging.
I worked for a company that had SELinux enabled, in enforcing mode, on every system. The key for us was understanding and using the audit2allow program which can be used to create new context rules. 
This builds the module from the template (.te file), generates a package, and then loads the module.
If you can make it work, then go for it. If you can't, then don't expect a lot of assistance from the vendors out there. You can probably get help from the Redhat/Fedora guys, from the selinux mailing lists and #selinux channel on freenode. But from companies like Oracle -- well, SELinux doesn't really factor in to their business plan.