(Alternatively there are hardware devices that sync your BIOS clock, but I cannot remember how they are called.)
Also consider that sometimes, virtualized systems that run Windows OS joined to a domain have the wrong setting to synchronize time with the host.
This is not a best practice because the VM continue to change its time setting first synchronizing from the PDC Emulator as Daniel said on Windows side, then from the host on Hypervisor side.
Summarized, clients get their time from the PDC emulator. And the PDC emulator gets its time from the BIOS clock, unless you configure an external time server, which is strongly advised.
Where would I set it so that all servers and computers automatically use {0-3}.pool.ntp.org (or whatever the recommended would be)?
Where do servers and computers on the domain get their time settings from? Is that set on a domain controller or elsewhere (I have 2 domain controllers).
To clarify: All computers get their time from their RTC (real time clock), unless they're virtual machines, in which case the host hypervisor injects it's time into the VM at startup (because virtual machines don't have an RTC). Thereafter they sync their time either with the host hypervisor (if configured to do so), or in the case of a domain member, with the domain hierarchy. They don't get their time from the domain hierarchy, they sync their time with the domain hierarchy. Domain controllers that don't hold the PDCe role sync their time with the PDCe. All other domain members sync their time with their authenticating domain controller, which is not necessarily the PDCe. Host hypervisor time synchronization should be disabled for all domain joined virtual machines. At no time should any domain member be configured to sync with an external time source. Only the domain controller that holds the PDCe role should be configured to sync with a reliable external time source, if desired. Time is relative. There's no requirement that the domain time be synchronized with a reliable external time source, although it's considered best practice to do so.
w32tm /config /manualpeerlist:0.pool.ntp.org,1.pool.ntp.org,2.pool.ntp.org,3.pool.ntp.org /syncfromflags:manual /reliable:yes /update
to keep the time in sync but to be honest I've never ever had a problem with time on a Windows domain so I've never had to look at it.