If you are still curious, you might want to repeat the exercise, this time with a "KUbuntu" CD.  Compare how the KDE desktop in KUbuntu looks and works, compared to the GNOME desktop in Ubuntu.  Some people really like KDE.  Other people prefer GNOME.  In Linux, you get to choose.  (In Windows, the only choice you have is: run XP, or run Windows 7?  If you run XP you get the XP desktop, and if you run Windows 7, you get the Windows 7 desktop.  In Windows it all comes together.)
Sitting at a Windows computer, I'm looking at screens with windows on them, and the windows have various controls I can click.  If I select a window by clicking on it, I might be able to type into it.  There's icons down the left side, and a task bar on the bottom.
Get an Ubuntu "Live CD".  You can get one for free.  Stick it in your computer, and boot from it.  Note: it will not install anything on your hard disk, or even touch your hard disk, unless you tell it to do so.
There's system tools that do various things.  If you type ls into a Linux command line, or dir into a Windows one, it will give you a list of files with information attached.  It fundamentally gets the information from the kernel, but processes it in other ways.  (With Windows, these sorts of tools usually come with GUIs, while in Linux they usually don't.)
There's the kernel, which handles things like how files exist on disk or whatever, what processes get to run when, and how much memory they get to use.  It doesn't talk to the user directly.
There's also cultural differences.  Linux operating systems are normally made up of components you can duplicate freely, examine, and change to your liking, and so there's a strong preference for applications you can get on the same terms.  (The advantage for the non-technical person is that many apps are free to download and install, quickly, easily, and safely, without worrying about licenses or transferring money around.)  Windows users are more used to paying money for closed-source apps they just use.  (The advantage here is that people being paid good money for things generally pay more attention to the needs of people who give them money, and so commercial applications are often easier to use, and there's more commercial apps available for things programmers find dull.)  Don't exaggerate this too much.  There's plenty of closed-source commercial applications that will run nicely on Linux, and plenty of open-source applications you can just grab for Windows.
In Windows, Microsoft provides all of these neatly wrapped up in large packages.  With Linux operating systems, you have choices for a lot of things, and can build a system in lots of different ways.  
If Windows is working for you, you may be done at this point.  But still, tuck away that Ubuntu CD; it can serve as a handy "rescue CD" to help you if your Windows system ever gets overrun with viruses, or melts down due to a registry error, or whatever.
Now then, KDE and GNOME are desktop environments. A window manager is a program that controls the way windows are displayed, but a desktop environment controls the icons and panels (equivalents to the Windows taskbar) on your desktop. If you want a desktop environment that functions exactly like Windows XP, get XPDE. Wish I could post screenshots of my KDE and GNOME, but I'm on Windows now. 
Many Linux providers provide packages.  For example, if you were to install Ubuntu Linux (a popular version), it would work much like Windows in that all sorts of things would be pre-installed, and (barring hardware incompatibilities) would just work.  If you used Gentoo Linux instead, you'd find yourself doing a lot more work and making many more decisions.  Some people find this fun (there's a very wide range of things some people somewhere will consider fun), and some like being able to tailor their operating system to suit themselves.
For a better idea of what I'm talking about, you can simply look at screenshots of all these different things in action; since much of their user-facing distinctiveness is in how they differentiate as interfaces, you can see the different ways they're set up.
In Linux, the set of programs that does things like show you windows, show your start menu, your taskbar, etc., is not directly tied to the operating system in general. You can run a GNU/Linux distribution without any graphics at all, or with windowing and task management handled by one of a dozen different systems: Gnome, KDE, Xfce, Fluxbox. These are called Window Managers, because they provide the interface for interacting with all the graphical applications on your GNU/Linux installation.
You may have a friend who can give you an Ubuntu CD.  Or, you may have a Linux club in your city, where someone would be happy to give you an Ubuntu CD.  Or you can make your own:
Also, linux uses the / instead of C:\ for its root folder. Your Documents folder is in /home/username/Documents and your Pictures folder is in /home/username/Pictures, likewise. Same thing for your Videos, Music, and Downloads folders. 
That's basically what Gnome or KDE do:  they provide the same sort of GUI controls I've just mentioned.  There are other programs that do much the same thing, but they're not as popular on Linux machines.
An operating system is a piece of software that runs on your computer and makes it basically useful.  It allows you to run applications.  It comes in layers, more or less.