Should I firewall my server? Good question. It would seem that there is little point to slapping a firewall on top of a network stack that already rejects connection attempts to all but the handful of ports that are legitimately open. If there is a vulnerability in the OS that allows maliciously crafted packets to disrupt/exploit a host, would a firewall running on that same host prevent the exploit? Well, maybe ...
Vulnerabilities are hard to predict. It is practically impossible to predict which way your infrastructure is going to get exploited. Having a firewall "raises the bar" for an attacker wanting to exploit a vulnerability, and this is the important part, BEFORE you know what that vulnerability is. Additionally, the ramifications of  the firewall can be easily understood in advance, so you are unlikely to CAUSE problems with a firewall which are more severe than the problems you are likely to avoid.
You may not be realizing how much you are benefiting from firewalls simply because everybody else is using them. In a day when literally everyone, down to home DSL users have firewalls in place port sniffing has been all but given up as a feasible attack vector. A decent hacker isn't going to waste their time checking for such things.
Another reason to run a firewall on a server is to decouple these two otherwise strongly correlated concerns:
For highly (CPU-wise) used Web front ends, local firewall really degrades performance, period. Try a load test and see. I saw this tons of times. Turning off firewall increased performance (request per-sec) by 70% or more.
Side note; firewalls are not for the internet only. Your accounting dept. doesn't need ssh/whatever to your ldap server, so don't give it to them. Compartmentalizing internal services can make a big difference to the cleanup job in the event that something DOES breach the castle walls.
Without a firewall, the set of services running (along with the configurations for tcpwrappers and such) completely determines the set of ports the server will have open, and from whom connections will be accepted. A host-based firewall gives the admin additional flexibility to install and test new services in a controlled way before making them more widely available. If such flexibility is not required, then there is less reason to install a firewall on a server.
This is why "nobody ever got fired for installing a firewall". Their implementation is very low risk, and has a HIGH likelihood of either preventing or mitigating an exploit. Also, most really nasty vulnerabilities end up being exploited by automation, so anything "unusual" will end up breaking a  bot, or at least get it to skip you in favor of an easier target.
On a final note, there is one item not mentioned in your security checklist that I always add, and that is a host-based intrusion detection system (HIDS), such as AIDE or samhain. A good HIDS makes it extremely difficult for an intruder to make unwanted changes to the system and remain undetected. I believe all servers should be running some kind of HIDS.
And that is probably the strongest reason to run a firewall on every host: A firewall might prevent a network stack vulnerability from being exploited. Is that a strong enough reason? I don't know, but I suppose one could say, "No one ever got fired for installing a firewall."