As mentioned before, the main issue are files and directories which are not worth being saved between reboots, but get written quite often, i.e. cache files, download folders, etc.
Nevertheless this is a far better solution than not having a syslog daemon at all, i.e. you can still log in and read the log entries of the approx. past few hours or days (depending on the configured size of the ring buffer) with the command logread. You can also use logread -f to get a tail -f like behaviour to e.g. only store interesting log entries using a filter script or to forward log entries over the network elsewhere, e.g. using stunnel or such.
I'm not all that keen to buy a USB hard disk, but I'm aware that SD cards aren't suitable for many repetitions of reading and writing.
If you need more RAM, you can try to use zram, theres a post on http://raspberry.pi.gw.gd/t50-Using-ZRAM.html giving some details about using ZRAM on the raspberry pi
Are there any steps I can take to extend the life of my SD card while it's being used by my Raspberry Pi?
Use busybox' syslog daemon (in the package busybox-syslogd on Raspbian/Debian/Ubuntu) instead of the default syslog daemon (usually rsyslog). By default on Raspbian/Debian/Ubuntu, the syslogd of busybox only logs into ring buffer in memory and not onto disk. The ring buffer has a size of 128kB by default, i.e. old log entries rotate out rather soon and are gone then. But you can configure it to use more RAM for it.
It's commonly run at login time under X and targetted towards GUI application's cache files, but can also called from scripts or such and configured for arbitrary files in a user's home directory. 
Also the most recent SD cards are know to be much more solid than older ones, buying a brand new class 10 SD card is probably a good option is you want to see it last a long time.
Note: The 100,000 cycles limit  is a hypothesis that applies to every computing device, even the keys in a keyboard.I believe running Pi in proper cooling conditions and proper shutdown/start cycles will give your better results rather than going into analogies.
Raspbian as well as Debian and Ubuntu have a package called unburden-home-dir whose primary purpose is to symlink such files to a less problematic place like e.g. a tmpfs mount or an external harddisk which is less prone to wearing off.