Its taller than a normal mouse so I do have the tendency to knock it over when quickly moving my hand from the mouse to the keyboard. However with practise this is happening less often.
A vertical mouse is something you have to lift and if you have to do this continuously, your RSI could return again. RSI is often caused by overuse of a certain tool. If you get RSI from your regular mouse, it's likely that you're using it intensively. You're likely to use the vertical mouse just as regular, thus it won't solve the RSI. Furthermore, you could also get RSI from your keyboard or even just by writing a lot with a pen.
I use an Evoulent VerticalMouse 3 at home and work; it's done wonders for my wrist pain. A quick list of pros and cons that I've noticed:
It has definately helped to make my mouse arm more comfortable as the position is much more natural.
You could, for example, use two mice on your system. Two different models and different shapes. Switch your mice regularly to break the repetitive motion. It also helps to change your sitting position to change the repetition that causes the RSI. It won't go away but it might reduce it a bit. Take regular breaks and do exercise with your arm and shoulder, which will lower your chances of developing RSI. And try to reduce possible stress factors. It is suggested that stress is one main cause for RSI.
I am thinking of getting a vertical mouse to help with an RSI problem. Does anyone have any experience of them, would you recomend them?
I have been using a DXT Vertical Mouse for some time now. Its designed to be used with your finger tips rather like holding a pen. Here are some pros and cons.
To start with clicking the secondary mouse button didnt feel at all natural, took me a while to get used to it.
Can be set up to use left or right handed simply by pressing a button on the mouse. I find this particularly useful as I now can have two mice. I use the DXT with my left hand and a normal mouse with my right, switching regularly between them to reduce the load on any one arm.