Processing power is still orders of magnitude higher on even older desktops compared to the most advanced phones on the market. An Intel Atom processor is significantly faster than anything in any smartphone. 
There are a ton of factors involved other than raw CPU clock speed, mostly hardware related. Peripherals, memory, and bus speed and architecture are biggies. Another is how the CPU silicon is constructed; ARM CPUs are typically simpler, and don't have performance-enhancing features found in x86 chips that boost the power requirements and chip die size.
example: if want to upgrade an intel atom z2520 1.20 GHz (Asus ZenFone 4) to 2.00 GHz, you need to find a same cpu specs with higher speed. lets say z2580 (Asus ZenFone 5, 2,00GHz). you can swap the cpu ic, because they have a same cpu specs (socket, x86 architecture) 
Yes, speeds for smartphone and desktop processors (as well as any other processors) are comparable in such a way, that 1 Hz equals 1 computational operation per second. In this way - assuming both CPUs have the same or similar instruction set and bus width - a 1.5 GHz quad-core processor can compute faster than a 1.2 GHz Celeron.
Generally speaking, the thermal and power requirements of the smartphone will always make it possible for desktop CPUs to be better purely in terms of die size (form factor). The question is how much "better" is needed, and will we reach a plateau point?
Practically you cannot swap the Snapdragon with the Celeron, as the hardware interfaces are incompatible.
A necessary consequence is that mobile processors are slower but they probably incorporate power-saving tricks that are not so much used in desktop PCs (I think variable CPU clock-rates started in mobile processors).
Tablets/slates/pads/fondleslabs form a middle ground where traditional desktop/laptop CPU architectures (e.g. x86) and traditional small-device architectures (e.g. ARM) are both used. You can view this as convergence from both directions.
BUT, with the same cpu specs.. because smartphones uses SoC (System on a Chip) and there is lots of SoC options in the world... you need to find a same cpu pinout and architecture... 
The thinking behind building a smartphone processor is something like 95% make it as low power as possible and 5% make it fast(Not real numbers of course). It has to be in a device and powered on the entire time and last a whole day, the power usage has to be tiny. Desktop PC processors are very much performance oriented.
The Processors used in mobile phones (cellphones/feature-phones/smartphones) are a different category (they are mostly ARM processors) than PC's and are optimised for even lower power and cooling resources.