I had the idea to run a bunch of stability tests to try and isolate the faulty component(s), and I wanted some input on my results.
The only thing working right now is the parted magic version of the ultimate boot cd.(Its a repair linux distro that runs live from ram)
I did different cpu stresstests for different times. No problem (temerature ~60°C sometimes peaks at 65)
I have 3 crashdumps from Windows wich I can not open. (visual studio says it cant open old crashdump files) [*] 3 dumps in the dropbox
The best way to determine the cause of the blue screen is to analyze the .dmp file using WinDbg. The clearest steps I have seen are in Stu Mackellar's answer on stackoverflow.
This, in combination with the fact that you can't run or install most other OSs you're attempting, tells me you definitely have a hardware error of some kind.  
The odds of it being a "CPU error" are slim, as CPUs are one of the least likely components to malfunction; More likely a motherboard problem causing the CPU-related errors - but it's basically impossible to say for sure without replacing and testing components.
It would be interesting to test the cpu with L2 cache disabled (and with the other core enabled again) but thats a whole different level.
Regardless of where you start, you should begin troubleshooting the hardware, one component at a time.  e.g.: Drives, RAM, PSU, motherboard, CPU, in (basically) that order.
I've been having problems with a blue-screening Laptop (BCCode 124), and I've been trying to track down whats causing it. (It bluescreened randomly after 5-30 minutes of running in win7). It worked in safe mode. I tried reinstalling Windows, which didn't work, so I tried to install various Linux systems which also didn't work.
The laptop is a Lenovo B570. Here are the detailed system specs (the ram is a 4GB kingston now) [*] the hardinfo file in the dropbox
Every linux system I try to install crashes when I try to install it. (It either freezes with no error (rarely happens) or I get something like this shortly after I tell it to install (tried about 20 different distros): [*] 3 photos in the dropbox
I just came here to say that ive managed to get linux running with the startparameter maxcores=1 (its a 2 core cpu).
Trying to isntall windows 7 just gives a generic "there was a problem" / "an error has occured" screen with no further information.
Edit: im not allowed to post more than 2 links here so here the dropboxfolder with all the things I mentioned:
So if someone has this error and doesnt feel like repairing hardware/buying new, get linux on it. Install with that parameter and add this parameter to the grub default parameters.