You can open a port forwarding rule on the router, stating that anything received on the public interface and port 9999 must be forwarded to the IP of your device and the same port. 
You can use port forwarding on your router, of course. But there are security risks associated with it.
The router will send the external requirements to the device and port specified and the other devices will be unaware of this traffic.
If you are able to run OpenVPN on your devices, I suggest you create a VPN. With all your devices and your cloud/mobile also on the VPN, you can access them as if they were physically on the same network. Plus, all the communication would be encrypted.
It could use the packet payload, but it won't do that. The commonly used consumer wireless routers will not do inspection of each packet payload to decide their routing in whatever way. You could make a custom device or code to handle that, which would in effect be the same as "a server running inside the WLAN" which is apparently also not acceptable.
Whatever tech you're using to send it, by the time a single TCP/IP packet arrives from an outside connection to the router, the router must decide what to do with that single packet, to which of the hundreds of your internal devices it should be sent - and it needs information to do that. 
A router, both by definition and common usage, routes packets based on the indicated destination address and port, and not other factors.
It cannot use the IP address information, since in your setup you'd have only a single external IP address, and that would be the address of the router - the same for all packets which you'd want to route differently.
There is no other information - a router might make some decisions based on other fields in the IP packet header but those fields are either not usable at all for your needs or impractical - e.g. you might set up routing based on the source IP address and send packets with spoofed source addresses, but it would have all the same configuration problems as simply using ports for that.
It could use the TCP port information for that, as suggested in other answers, but it's apparently not acceptable.