Given some event in a game, what is the maximum delay to producing audio that the player will properly associate the audio with that event (and not perceive lag)?
The 185.19 ms quoted above is irrelevant as it is referring to a leading sound error, and anyhow, to what people found acceptable when passively watching a film, not actively engaged in a game.
In this talk from GDC 2013, Mathieu Pavageau argues that players can perceive differences in synch precision above about 5ms, much less forgiving than the examples from lip synching would suggest. Check out the sections "Time Perception Examples" and "Example of Ubisoft Games" to hear it for yourself. You can hear the Rayman Origins menu doesn't sound "laggy" per se when synched within 16 ms (video frame), but when synched within 5 ms it sounds noticeably better & tighter.
Humans use the time delay between their ears for directional information, and thus must be able to process and extract information from delays below 1mSec
states that people (not just musicians), when listening to their own voice delayed, are aware of delays as short as 3mSec, and a delay of longer than 10 mSec was objectionable 90% of the time .
The accepted answer here mainly discusses perception of audio synchronization in passively watching video. In these cases, the audience can't easily pin down exactly when the audio should play except by attending to telltale signs in the video. This means they have limited anticipation of the sound.
Pavageau advocates using a low-level audio callback to get this kind of sub-frame precision if you want tight-feeling rhythmic gameplay of this variety.
Any situation where a player causes the sound (music games, guns in FPS) will need very low delay as the player has sent an impulse to make it happen at that moment, so as with a musician hearing their instrument delayed, will be particularly aware of very small delays. Sound engineers fret about recording delays below 5 mSec ruining the "groove"
For games which require a person to react to audio cues, every millisecond by which the sound is delayed will cause the person's response to likewise be delayed.  Someone who is simply watching a movie or cut-scene may not notice too much if the audio and video aren't exactly in sync, but it's often important and sometimes critical that audio be in sync with what the player is expected to be doing.