Holds the instance that is referred to within the handler (e.g. php) that connects to the database (see example below). The configuration defines the server it needs to connect to.
The missing manuals are found by downloading unixODBC-2.3.4.tar.gz from http://www.unixodbc.org/ and then open it with archive manager (or the like) and look at these three manuals: 
Okay simple difference between odbcinst.ini and odbc.ini from unixodbc site which is the first hit on google:
The manuals are suppose to be here (click Manuals then User Manual).  But unfortunately the links for Administrator Manual and the Programmer Manual are broken.  (I have reported this and was told they they will be fixed.) 
The Driver = /path/to/file.so should generally be the same in both files when both are expressed as paths. In odbc.ini, this entry may instead be Driver = {name of driver} where the name is as indexed in odbcinst.ini. Generally speaking, settings in odbc.ini prevail over conflicting settings in odbcinst.ini if such exist.
I'm sure there's many other variables that can be set and used but this is the simplest explanation I can give of the files you asked about.
There are two ODBC driver managers commonly found on Unix.  iODBC, whose documentation relevant to this question is here, is maintained and supported by my employer.  UnixODBC is the other, and was discussed in other answers.  These are meant to be API equivalent to each other and to the Windows implementation, as both are platform-agnostic implementations of the standard.
If you only look at Unix implementations, you'll get some interesting ideas about how ODBC works. None of these implementations are 100% comparable to the reference implementation on Windows, produced by the maintainer of the ODBC spec, i.e., Microsoft.
In simple terms, odbcinst.ini is a registry and configuration file for ODBC drivers in an environment, while odbc.ini is a registry and configuration file for ODBC DSNs (Data Source Names), typically based on drivers registered in the other.
No, odbcinst.ini is not a "prototype" in this way. odbcinst.ini settings are relevant to the driver, but not to the DSNs based on that driver.
In odbcinst.ini, the Driver = refers to the driver library, and Setup = to the setup library.  The latter is entirely optional, and when it does exist, it may but need not be used during a data connection; it is primarily intended for use by an ODBC Administrator when "setting up" such connections, to be saved as DSNs. Sometimes, these libraries are found in the same physical file, but they need not be, and, for instance, are typically not in the OS X environment.