On your second sheet, create a button to the right of the last column from the Developer tab. If the developer tab is not available, go here to learn how to make it visible. 
Right click the button and choose View Code. A window will open and you will see something like this in the right pane.
This answer is only going off of your description of what you are doing, without seeing your workbook. It is a starting point for you. Make backup copies of your file before attempting this.
This should get you headed in the right direction. Alternatively, you can do this with a button in the Ribbon instead of on the sheet. 
I have an inventory list on the first sheet with 272 lines. This list has 7 columns and the first column lists part numbers (made into a table), the last column H has the stock counts. 
Close the VBA window and right click the button and choose Properties. Change the caption to "Calculate", or something else descriptive, and close. DO NOT change the (name) at the top or your button will not work. 
Provided when you refer to the first column and the second column you meant column A and B, this will find the part number in the last row of the log, then match it to the part number in the other sheet and then subtract the taken amount from the inventory.
What formula can I insert to make the log sheet update the master list whenever an item is taken, so that we always have an accurate count? It would be nice if There is a formula so that when someone finishes their line entry, either the line auto-saves or auto-saves after ~2 minutes, or they can press a button (I've already made a button with Developer tab) to update the changes? Just mainly looking for a good way to build in a proper count function.
The second, let's call it a Log, sheet is composed of 7 columns where the first column permits a drop-down list of any item and the second column has a field entry of the quantity taken. The 4th column is the date field.
After you have pasted it, you will need to change the sheet names if yours are not the default Sheet1 and Sheet2. Sheet1 is where your inventory list is. Sheet2 is the log that takes away from the inventory.
It only calculates the last row. It will not do any previous rows. SO, if there are already existing rows or you forget to click the button after you enter the data, it will be missed. On the flip side, if you hit the button more than once, it will subtract as many times as you hit the button.