To get lighting inside your case, you're going to need an LED, a resistor and some wires to connect it together.
I'm new to the RPi. I'm looking to put a light inside my RPi case for a glow effect. But since I'm not an electronics guy, I have no idea what kind of an LED I can use and where to put it inside the RPi. I believe it would be put somewhere on the GPIO port and since that's a little away from the center, the LED will have to be powerful enough to shine through and light up the whole of the inside.  :idea: 
I looked at the PiGlow. This is interesting, even though it would be a bit of an overkill for whatever use I have in mind. About $15 is a bit much, so I was wondering if there are any single-purpose, lower cost alternatives. I don't even know what to look for.
I also found this starter kit on eBay (http://www.ebay.com/itm/121251111290) which seems to have the LEDs, switches, wires and also a breadboard for some slightly more advanced stuff.
Any recommendations on how I can go about doing this? What kind of LED light I should ask for and where do I fix it?
Also - I don't want to permanently use up the GPIO port for the in-case lighting. I only need to draw power from it, so I can connect another add-on later on when I want to.
While it's always worthwhile learning to wire things up yourself, it's nice to have an inexpensive packaged product sometimes. You might be interested in the $7 Pimoroni Blinkt from the same company. It provides 7 individually-addressable RGB LEDs.
If I get a couple of these, will I be able to get them to work directly with the RPi, or will I need to use some breadboard type stuff? Since all I want is an in-case light when the RPi is turned on and no user control or anything, I wonder if I can use it directly.
Your main restricting factor will be the amount of space left inside the case once you've put the Pi in. Doing any sort of breadboarding is not going to be an option as the board itself takes up a great deal of room - even the smallest size breadboard is going to be too thick, plus the wires will project out of your GPIO pins too high. About the only option you've got for doing it yourself would be to solder wires directly onto the GPIO pins, add an inline resistor and then the LED.
There's also another listing for only LEDs (http://www.ebay.com/itm/281231405437) - about 100 of them, but that's not the point - which, they say, can be used with the RPi.