When I do the iscsiadm discovery and the iscsiadm -m node -l command to the first iSCSI target server, the targets are mounted and there are symlinks under /dev/disk/by-id.
NOTE: I used backticks ("`") in front of the < or > characters because this website's editor was not displaying them correctly.  Don't use backticks when you edit your 1.tgt file.
I am not an iSCSI expert so I thought I'd ask.  I Googled this problem and searched for relevant tags here but I didn't see any answers.  Maybe I am not configuring something correctly?
1) I checked that all the iSCSI targets are mounted on the Ubuntu initiator by issuing an fdisk -l command.  The iSCSI targets are all mounted.
I have two iSCSI target servers.  The iSCSI Initiator is an Ubuntu host (Ubuntu 14.04).  I am using Ubuntu's open-iscsi to mount the iSCSI targets from both iSCSI targets servers to my Initiator.
After doing a discovery and a login to the 2nd iSCSI target server (without logging out of the iSCSI target server), doing an ls -l /dev/disk/by-id shows something like this:
Is it possible to have all the iSCSI targets, from both iSCSI target servers, have separate symlinks and be listed under /dev/disk/by-id?
2) But the symlinks point to targets from the 2nd server now.  It looks like the symlinks to the targets from the 1st server were overwritten by symlinks to the 2nd server.
However, you haven't specified what server you are using, and this process is wildly different from target server to server. If you let me know what your target server is, I can update this to be more specific. Otherwise, it stands as a fairly general recommendation.
A workaround would be for me to write a script that ccreates individual, unique symlinks for all the iSCSI targets but I'd first like to see if I am misconfiguring something.
You need to specify VPD (Vital Product Data) for your iSCSI target LUNs. This involves specifying manufacturer IDs and serial numbers for each LUN you add, and is controlled entirely on the target side.
For example, doing an ls -l /dev/disk/by-id after logging in to the first iSCSI target server might show the following:
When you mount the iSCSI targets from both iSCSI servers, the symlinks under /dev/disk/by-id will be unique for every iSCSI target.
For iSCSI targets that are on an Ubuntu, you have to edit the target's configuration file at: /etc/tgt/conf.d/1.conf