Another problem with Outlook is that if the program crashes while files are open, the entire outlook .pst file has to be rebuilt, and chances are, you will lose some data.  Thunderbird uses a multitude of files and I never lost an email when Thunderbird  crashed.
I'd check out inboxzero and I have a feeling that you'll be able to change the way that you look at email and remove the need to have gigabytes of email clogging up your inbox.    
Speed in Outlook is about 300 times faster, but the Rules in Outlook are tremendously inferior to Thunderbird, so now I am searching for an Outlook add-on that will process substrings in text matching.
A little history:  I converted from Outlook to Thunderbird around 2002 because back then Outlook had a 2 gigabyte limitation.  but Outlook now has a 50 GB limit, 
I was almost recommending Gmail or Google App, but if you are only looking at a client solution and Gmail is not an option, well, no much choices left, or simply no choices left.
Another option that might be of use is, of all things, the GroupWise Client. It's archive method involves a few files for small emails databases, and a bunch of files for larger emails and attachments, so should scale rather well for what you're looking at. Some people at my old job had archives north of 1.5GB and worked well for them, which was back with GW6.
I split the data into 2 'profiles' and that had no effect at all on speed.  I also deleted all of the msf files and rebuilt the indices, which had no effect either.
I had 30 gigabytes of data in Thunderbird, the program ran very slowly, taking 30-40 seconds to delete one email.
For large amounts of email, my experience with Thunderbird has been bad, so I converted my datafiles from Thunderbird to Outlook.
OK...here's my question...why do you NEED all of that email to be around?  If it is important enough to be documented in email, its important enough to be on your internal wiki / file server / share point / whatever.  
With that being said, I unfortunately can't recommend a great email client. I have yet to see one that is going to handle that amount of email overly well.
Outlook 2003 and up can handle much larger storage. .pst before 2003 only handles up to 2G storage. But even it can, the performance usually becomes bad when mail storage gets bigger. I am not a fan of using .pst file and even consider managing an environment w/ full of .pst is just a nightmare to any IT guys.