If you are forced into Microsoft Exchange, I urge you to get a prebuilt server system without all the bells and whistles (ie, get the extra memory yourself), and then add those yourself later. It's universally cheaper that way.
Are you trapped with Microsoft Exchange Server? I hope not. If at all possible, get your folks on Unix or Linux - it'll be easier on you and you'll get a lot more bang for the buck.
A Linux / Unix box of modest cost can handle a VASTLY heavier load than a comparable Windows system and can likely carry the burden of being a file server, too.
If you are contemplating Linux - or Unix, stick with a very popular type so you have the most packages and most prompt bug-fixes available.
Technet is usually a good place to start with this sort of specing exercise.  Assuming that you are looking at exchange 2010 then this link will help out.  
Don't bother counting up megabytes; max out the hardware on memory as soon as you get it. The memory will never be cheaper and more memory is very much like adding a LOT of CPU. That is, the performance you get from a very fast/ expensive CPU is lost if you don't give it lots of RAM.
Buy LOTS of extra disk, and use rsync to synchronize regularly - maybe even hourly for the most important assets.
How large is large? Hundreds, Thousands? On today's hardware tens of people is not large... Even a hundred people may not be large, depending on their needs.
Exchange can be easy enough to install and configure, at least in a lab type setup, but it is a pretty complex bit of software that needs careful thought and planing. From what you've said so far I highly recommend that you not try to do this on your own, at least not with your current level of experience. You should be able to find someone locally who can give you guidance in regard to what you need and how to set it up, even if you don't want them to actually do the job for you. An experienced person can work with you to determine what you really need and take the guesswork out of it. It often happens that the expense of a third party contractor can work out much cheaper than ending up with an unsuitable or poorly performing system.