If high availability is really your concern, you should maybe think about a synced second server as well. If data loss is your concern, than you should primarily make sure to have a good backup. A RAID is never a substitute for backups, since it only secures against failed disks, not against accidental deletion of data, malware or attacker encrypting or deleting your data and so on.
Supposing I am limited to 4 drives, I would have limited posibilities with RAID10, as opposed to RAID1, where I could define 3 drives active and 4th as a spare. Either that or directly define active 4 HDDs.
If you are looking for a system with high availability and you are worried about crashing drives, the RAID1 is surely the best solution. But if you want more space, a RAID6 might be a compromise. You "loose" the space of two disks to parity, but you are save for up to two failed disks as well.
No matter how many disks you put in a controller, there is still a single point of failure, and that is the machine itself. Rather than worrying about packing in redundancy at the RAID level, you could implement something like DRDB, GlusterFS, or Ceph.
You can still implement RAID at the node level using these types of storage, but with these inter-node replicating systems it becomes much less of a concern and reduces scalability in larger deployments. It's also easy to take an entire node out of the cluster, fix it, and then put it back in. In storage clouds, RAID is being used less and less often for these reasons.
Apart from this decision RAID1 vs RAID10, which I probably already made, RAID1 that is, unless you advise me otherwise, I have a question regarding RAID1:
DRDB would act more like a network RAID-1, to describe it simplistically. Gluster and Ceph can behave this way as well, but can also scale massively by both replicating to nodes and distributing data across replica sets.
If you're so incredibly concerned about data availability and integrity, and you're willing to do something like a four member RAID-1 to get it, then you should probably be looking at redundancy at the node level.
Intended purpose: Extreme reliability storage. Cannot afford data loss. Such thing would simply be unacceptable. That is why I am considering RAID1 instead of RAID10, because fault tolerance with RAID1 should be 3-drive failure.