I don't know if it is useful or maybe even bad to have several pagefiles, I for one have a fixed size of 2 GB min/max on my boot drive (HDD) for partition C and a managed one on an SSD. But I was searching for pros and/or cons to have more than one pagefile or not, as I tend to delete the 2 GB on my boot partition. Alas, haven't found any valuable arguments yet, but I assume, just for the crash dump files and stuff, it's useful to allocate some GB for Windows' where the pagefile resides normally by default. Hence I leave it like that. But for the other SSDs where my games are installed I do not have any pagefile. Wouldn't even know which size they should have to make a difference, whereas I also don't want Windows to occupy another up to 24 GB on each SSD (or at least 16+ GB as it uses now for the managed pagefile).
This was important in the old days, when memory was costly and small, and so programs competed for memory and swapped each other out of memory to the page file.
Now, that said, I don't know how much improvement you would see with it on multiple physical disks, especially if you kept the need for paging to a minimum by having a good amount of physical RAM.
The page file is still used and will continue to be used regardless of how much RAM you have.  Under XP and earlier (and I THINK this holds true in Windows Vista, 7, and 2008) the pagefile allows memory dumps for debugging but must be on the C: drive for them to work.  That said, in 15 years, I've never had a need for a full memory dump so I generally recommend moving it OFF the C: drive when space is an issue on workstations.
The main reason you would want to have multiple page files on different drives is to be able to have a larger amount of swap space without having too much of your space on one particular drive taken up.
Especially on gaming PCs there are programs running which need a lots of your installed RAM to perform properly, but also video post processings, packing/unpacking, streaming and such processes ... at worst all at once, require a place for Windows to swap data which are not urgently needed at the moment but will be needed later again. And that's what the pagefile is for.
The long answer is that if you do have more than one physical disk (meaning real disks, not partitions of the same disk), it might be worthwhile to allocate the page file on another disk, although for every argument for it I can find one against ...
No matter what the initial reason for implementing the pagefile system was, pagefiles are still used, even heavily used by Windows today as nowadays available software has developed as well, not only available RAM, and are much more demanding today than they were back in the days when there's much less RAM available.
If you put the page file on multiple physical hard drives, Windows tries to identify the least used drive and use that for paging operations.  So if you have multiple physical hard drives - as opposed to one hard drive partitioned - moving it can be a good idea.
EDIT: I forgot to add, if you have one drive with multiple partitions, you should probably make sure that only one drive has the page file on it, as this will give you better performance (in most cases).
Always let Windows manage this file/those files, unless you're absolutely sure what you're doing and know how large it should be (btw, Windows already recommends how large it should be). To prevent unnecessary fragmentation and HDD activity you can set a fixed size by setting the same value for min and max size. This way it won't be shrinked and then increased again depending on the workload. But to set the correct sizes you have to have a proper understanding of what Windows is doing with it and when.
Nowadays, when memory is counted in the gigabytes, the usefulness of this file has become rather doubtful. The only advantage to setting the page file elsewhere is to distribute I/O operations.
The old 1.5 times your RAM rule still seems to hold true, as this is always Windows' own recommended pagefile size. So, for a 16 GB RAM machine it would be something about 24 GB pagefile size (recommended).
You do not need to set a page file on each drive. If all drives are separate, physical drives, then you can get a small performance boost from this, though it would likely be negligible. If all your drives are partitions on one physical hard drive, it will likely cause problems with file access and possibly give you worse performance.
I've never heard or read anything to suggest multiple page files have any negative effect.  I would appreciate anyone with knowledge of this to post a link describing the issue - preferably from Microsoft's web site, but other sites may do.