Why are there channels 2,3,4,5,7,8,9,10 available if you re not supposed to use them? I don't know really but it may be a historical reason because the overcrowd of todays WiFi was not anticipated and the range of channels were there to available fine tune frequencies to avoid disturbances from microwave ovens and the like.
You could also turn on MAC filtering and add each device one by one as an alternative to turning the devices off. This would essentially block them one by one. Again, as soon as the levels drop to normal, you've found the resource hog.
Do you have any security settings on your router? IP filtering etc? If possible, try turning them off for a while and ping again. This can sometimes cause poor performance in routers and cause high pings.
The problem is probably down to someone on your network uploading too much traffic as there's much less available capacity upstream (which, as mentioned, is likely to be some BitTorrent client that's been set to run minimized on startup like uTorrent etc). It's possible that it is due something being downloaded but this would probably be more obvious like people watching streamed video.    
So, if you use channel 6 and your neighbor uses channel 3,4,5,7,8 or 9 you have problems. Your neighbor will disturb your router. Since they use different channels they can not understand each other an thus can not resolve the sharing. The disturbances will result in massive retransmissions which in turn will disturb your neighbors router which in turn will retransmit.... you get the picture?  It would be much better if your neighbor switched to channel 6.
A WiFi channel has a bandwidth of +/-3 channels. A router configured to use channel 6 will actually affect and disturb channels 3 to 9. In practice this means that only channel 1, 6 and 11 are usable in a crowded area if you don't want to disturb each other. If the routers are configured to use the same channel there will be no disturbances since the WiFi protocol will resolve this and allow the routers to share the available bandwidth without any clashes and retransmissions.
You could check what channels are used by yourself and your neighbors. Personally I use WiFi Analyzer on Android for this.
Another approach is to use something like ettercap which you can use to do controlled poison ARP on your network. This would allow you to sniff on the traffic (using Unified sniffing etc) and find out who is sending too much data. There's reasonable tutorial here. Also if you're having problems with user compliance then Ettercap allows you to selectively disable a machine's connection by poisoning their ARP table so their traffic would not get to the router.
One way to fix the issue is to turn off each device sequentially until the problem is gone. As soon as your ping rate drops to an acceptable level, you've found your culprit.