As for "why its so complex" - with 'burning' an ISO, you are literally just making a bit perfect copy. With USB boot, there's additional steps (which rufus hides beautifully).
PRACTICALLY SPEAKING, all you need to do is click on that little disk icon to the right, point it at the ISO and let rufus take care of it.
In general you don't have to bother about that. These options typically are special options, or specific bootloaders you'd want in specific cases - for some reason I have a different set of options but ISO Image and DD Image are the "default" options. Syslinux and Grub are linux bootloaders you can then setup to chainload something else. UEFI NTFS sets it up as a UEFI bootable  NTFS partition for whatever use you may have. I don't have the MS DOS, freedos makes a basic freedos bootable USB, and reactos asks you for an ISO.
CDs normally don't have the option of using different filesystems and partitions. CDs as a medium, by convention, have a single 'partition' with the ISO9660 or UDF filesystem and some standard block size. Other formatting is possible with the right tools, but Rufus only supports formatting USB drives. Even if you managed to create a CD with an MBR and various filesystems it probably wouldn't be bootable because the firmware doesn't expect it.
The ISO option in that list probably uses DD mode internally, if your firmware target matches the properties of your image. But that is speculation on my part.
But that drop-down list below isn't really USB specific. The equivalent of an oldschool CD burn is DD image, probably related to the Unix dd command. The other options allow adding bootloader programs, this is useful for 2 reasons:
BIOS and UEFI treat bootable CDs similarly (I think), but they require different formatting for USB drives. To simplify: UEFI requires a FAT partition and .efi files, BIOS needs the initial bootcode to reside in an MBR partition table, doesn't care about filesystem type. This means smart formatting software should include options for BIOS and UEFI and process the image file appropriately. I believe this is what happens when you select "ISO image" in that drop-down list.
In theory a CD burner could also offer the option to overwrite/add a bootloader like those in your drop-down list, i.e. a Rufus for CDs (but I don't know if it exists).
For example, you can pick different system firmware options (classic bios, or UEFI?) which matters sometimes. You can pick a filesystem (though fat32 is always a safe option). Contrast this to "which drive do you want to burn it to"
Rufus is a formatting tool for USB drives, i.e. it can be used even if you aren't interested in making bootable drives. The top part is for this general formatting, the bottom part is specific for adding content.