No, the second example gives you 75% chance of at least 1 critical strike per second. However it gives you an average of 1 critical strike per second. These are different things!
The multiplicative nature of these stats are not the cause the imbalance you refer to. In fact, they tend to prevent one single stat from being dominant. For example, higher attack speeds increase the usefulness of boosting attack damage. Doubling either value will have the same effect on the DPS, but most systems automatically enforce doubling numbers that are already high is quite difficult.
The problem you are describing is not necessarily about haste. It is about the multiplicative effects of increasing different stats. Haste increases hits per second, which increases damage and anything with a chance to happen per hit. Another example would be increasing +crit dmg which then increases the value of any +crit % chance.
Any on-hit chance is going to be affected this way by haste. World of Warcraft uses a proc-per-minute (ppm) implementation for things like trinkets that activate on hit or spellcast. This is primarily intended to reduce the randomness and clustering of procs.
If you are just looking to see extra normal attacks, add a stat that gives a chance on hit to give a free extra normal swing that cannot proc a crit or any other special attack. In WoW this ability is called windfury and it is always more exciting to see than a flat haste percentage. Numerically is not that different from a critical hit, but it can still be dodged, trigger thorns, etc. like a hasted attack. If you want these extra hits at a regular interval, implement a ppm system.
There's no intrinsic problem regarding critical hits etc. The small chance of doing critical damage can be disregarded and considered a small boost to the average damage if you prefer.
Instead of a talent that inflicts poison on the target when a critical hit occurs, give the proc its own independent chance of occurring. This will still scale with haste, but increasing critical strike chance will not increase the value of the poison talent.
If you don't want to put a lower bound on it, you would have to decrease other capabilities at at least the same rate or higher. If you decreased them at a slower rate, then it would still end up tending towards infinity as the period shortens. But if you decrease at a higher rate, there's no point shortening the period as the player gets no benefit. So a clamp seems the most reasonable solution.
If that is still distasteful to you, perhaps what you are looking for is not a haste mechanic, but something more akin to windfury in WoW. Pure haste percentage is always going to need high numbers before it becomes noticeable and those high numbers are what cause problems with other systems. 
A higher haste value doesn't necessarily have to reflect a higher amount of critical hits. Many games use two different stats for calculations - base stats, and modifiers. (D&D is a great example). Why not calculate critical hits based on the base of the haste stat, but still reflect the critical chance? For example, a level 1 character has an unmodified base haste of 1. He hits one time per second. Once per second he has a calculation that gives him a chance to critically hit. The character then levels up to 2. He now has a haste level of 2 that allows him to attack twice per second. Critical chance is still calculated on base haste which is 1 allowing him to still only get a maximum of 1 critical hit per second. This is the route that some games go down, and often it's not quite as simple as I've described, but it's something to think about. It depends on the game, the situations and the core mechanics. 
There are other options, however. By defining the on-hit critical strike chance as the ratio of crit statistic and attack speed, you effectively end up with a fixed estimate for the number of critical hits per unit time, removing a multiplicative relation from attack speed. A very common alternative is to use a stamina pool that haste quickly depletes. In other games, attack speed may have limited merit due to it being uncommon for an enemy to stay in attack range long enough for you to land more than one hit anyway. As for critical strikes, a lot of games don't bother with probabilities, but use different criteria, such as attacking from behind. 
As the player progresses, their increase in attack damage is often opposed by an increase in the enemy's defensive capabilities, which can scale almost indefinitely, unlike attack speed, which has a narrow 'logical' range. I suspect this is the main reason developers turn to caps or diminishing returns.
Obviously with any random event that occurs periodically, as you shrink the period the frequency of the event increases exponentially (because if the period is infinitely small, the frequency is infinitely high). The answer is to ensure that the period cannot approach zero, which means a lower bound on the period.
Most importantly, if you can't find a way to make it fun, eliminate the system altogether. Numerous RPGs don't even have variable attack speeds or critical strikes. Arbitrarily making equations more complicated doesn't add any interesting depth.