Samsung EVO SSD's built in encryption would be my choice as it is natively optimized and one of the best SSD's out there for security in corporate environments. Also if you ever lose the key, Samsung can unlock it for a fee via the serial # on the SSD.
Drives that are known to be suffering from this vulnerability include (but are probably not limited to):
There have neen several ways to breach Bitlocker in it's history, luckily most of them have already been patched / mitigated in 2018. What remains (known) include, for example, the "Cold Boot Attack" - the newest version of which really isn't Bitlocker specific (you need physical access to a running computer and steal the encryption keys, and anything else, straight from the memory).
To answer your question I don't really know which is faster.  I have reached out to Samsung but given the limited info on this. Unless I get a developer I doubt I will get a good answer to which is the better option.  For now I plan to enable the hardware based encryption in my bios.
Old question, but since then several new developments have been found concerning Bitlocker and drive encryption (used either alone or in combination), so I will turn couple of my comments on the page to an answer. Maybe it is of use to someone doing a search in 2018 and later.  
you can enable hardware based encryption via the BIOS by setting the master password.  You will need to follow some of the steps in the article above, like turning off CMS.
If your disk is on the list, you're better off using something else entirely since Bitlocker would use the drive encryption anyway. What is the question; on Linux I would recommend LUKS, for example.
A new vulnerability has surfaced in 2018; if a SSD disk has hardware encryption, which most SSDs have, Bitlocker defaults to using only that. Which means that if that encryption itself has been cracked, the user essentially has no protection at all.
So the answer really is; since Bitlocker uses the disks hardware encryption, and has it's own vulnerabilities on top of that , you're better off using the hardware encryption if your SSD is not on the list of cracked SSDs.