A full Windows shutdown (without hibernation) will get Windows 10 or 8 drives to mount with full read and write access on Linux. To perform a full shutdown, press and hold the Shift key while you press the Shut down button on your Windows 10 or 8 OS. You can also restart Windows and reboot into your Linux distribution. In both the full shutdown and restart cases, Windows won't hibernate, so you'll be able to access the Windows drive with read/write access in Linux.
The drives are of different file systems. My "OS drive" (mounted at /boot/efi) is of FAT32 while my "data drive" (mounted at /mnt/9ACC1AC5CC1A9C17) is NTFS.
The above solution safes you the hassle of having to think of holding down the "Shift" key all the time, while you shut down your PC.
I came here, because I intermittently had an issue with Steam and could not add my games library to it, as I got the error:
This should solve the issue, as it properly unmounts the drive from Windows and allows it to be mounted as rw in Linux.
I have 2 SSD's; 1 for my OS' (will refer to as the "OS drive") and the other for data (data drive). I have dual booted Windows 10 and Ubuntu 18.04. The Windows side seems perfectly fine. On Ubuntu, however, frequently (not always) I won't be able to save data onto the SSD that holds data because Ubuntu says it is read-only. This is from startup onwards. Again, this only frequently happens and not every time so sometimes it is mounted correctly and other times not. I am able to save data on the other ("OS drive") drive though.
This happend on Ubuntu 18.04.2 LTS. Games were on a NTFS formatted drive that was used by both Windows 10 and Ubuntu. 
I have found an answer (although it does not give an explanation) here with the solution to make sure Windows is completely shut down. I booted into Windows, shut down holding the SHIFT key. When I booted into Ubuntu, everything seemed fine
...but I still cannot seem to write to the drive. The same command of touch fires back: No such file or directory.