For SQL databases, just set up a SQL task to back up the database to a folder, and have your backup software use that folder instead.
BackupExec is very expensive.  With all the features we would be wanting out of it, it came to more than 12k.
I am the sole sysadmin for a small software development company, and occasionally I get help from either my boss or one of the engineers.  So its sort of a 1.5 person scenario.
We are currently using backupexec 9, and its definitely showing its age.  We have a sql2005 & sharepoint box it basically cant touch, and are considering some virtualized solutions that it wont be able to service either.
At my small development company, we threw out all our backup hardware & software recently and switched to the cloud with Carbonite Pro. 
Haven't seen anyone recommend CommVault? I've played with it briefly for an old client, so I don't have a lot of personal experience, but I know a lot of people that like it. Including my current company, which is migrating to it.
I tried the HP Dataprotector briefly and, well, Evan's rant against ARCServe covers my sentiments nicely.  ;)  The interface was terrible (admittedly, I'm used to Backup Exec), and HP support had a ball passing me around between departments for weeks on end.
So finally, the question:  Are any of these packages "avoid at all costs"?  Anyone using CA right now?  Love/Hate it?
Most of my experience is with BE 9/10 (decent for my use of them, although kind of annoying) and Legato Networker 7.2-7.3, which was damned spiffy but not that easy to learn. 
My experience with Retrospect was as a backup to the Backup Guy, so I wasn't as arms-deep as I would've preferred, but aside from a slightly cryptic interface, it was able to do everything asked of it, and is very, very hands-off once you have everything configured.
I spoke with the CA rep, and he put me in with the features i wanted for somewhere around 4k, which is better but still not great.
Ive looked at somewhere near 6 solutions at this point, and they all appear to do what we probably want.  So far ive given a cursory review to CA ARCServe, Barracuda Yosemite, BackupExec, BackupExpress, and Acronis.  I was recently recommended to check out tivoli, although i havent gotten around to it.