I work for a Church/School.  We had some Linksys routers in the classrooms because all of the students use laptops and bring a smart phone.  There was an average of 30-40 students on each router.  After 8 months, the router would suddenly only run 5 mb/s wired and wireless.  they were mounted on 8 foot ceilings with a/c running in the rooms.  The only one that survived more than a year was in the preschool area where only a few devices were connected at any time.  It seems that too much continuous traffic killed these routers.  Now I'm having the same problem with Comcast's Netgear gateways.  Replaced one 3 weeks ago and it became very unreliable this week.  I connected directly to it and pinged it's internal IP with 3-7 ms return.  Pinged our xerox machine across the room from same connection and got 1ms consistantly.  They replaced it again yesterday.  Traffic loads have something to do with it, and heat is every devices enemy.
I've noticed my four year old Linksys blue box works fine until I start torrenting. I've seen explanations that this has to do with the memory on the device, it has to start tracking lots and lots of hosts in the state table and it goes nuts.  It doesn't need a reboot, but all connections bog down until I turn bit torrent off.
At home, it is mostly the neighborhood wifi in use, Microwaves, and things like cordless phones, wireless home theatre speakers etc. The best way to assess the best wifi channel to use, is to use something like netstumbler (or whatever is the latest). Or trying to use Wireless-N and check if the issue still persists.
Every WiFi router I've owned has lost the transmitter eventually (usually long before the wired connections failed.)  You can extend the life of the router by mounting it in a cool dry place.  The one in my (nice clean) basement has lasted three years and is still going strong.  On top of your (dust covered) TV it will die in 1.
If I tell my torrent client to max out at two torrents, however, things are fine.  It wasn't a speed issue, it was a "number of connections" issue.