I have done this before in a dual core pc. The screen froze and the mouse was disabled. After 2 secs the pc crashed and shut down. That's due to short circuit. 
The rest of the article is very informative, and should be read before turning your computer, but it is probably better to read it from the source.
As far as i know even if you cool it after that incedent, there will be no such thing as bringing it back to live because a short circuit is damage to compoenents so there is no way reviving them and making use of them. Keeping your MB in rice or in the air conditioning for 3 hours will just dry the water but the damage cant be repaird. HOw can that be? If you damage your MB. I dont beleavew it comming back alive
This depends on your motherboard. Some motherboards have short protection, so when they detect a short, they shutdown, though this feature is typically designed for when the pc first powers on, not for when it is already running. So long as you have not damaged any components (capacitors are the most common type in this situation), the board will work fine when the water is gone, but the faster the water is dissipated, the better the chances. Many people will use silicon packets to pull excess liquid, some will use penetrating fluid such as WD-40 to lift and remove water. Just don't use a hair dryer or any sort of towel.
The problem is not with the water itself, but rather from the solutes it carries (distilled water does not carry electrical current well). When wet they are conductive, but when dry some of them can become corrosive. Proper cleaning using distilled or deionized water should be conducted if you want the affected components to last a decent period of time.
I think after water is spill onto the motherboard, the power is shut down not only to prevent damage and short circuits but also it actually cause other components to go bad. So your pc does not shut down because it detects damage. It's because it can't run and all your chips and components like resistors and capacitors are damaged. So the screen goes blank. 
Now if you have a blown or distended capacitor or have damaged anything else as a result of the liquid spill, either the component or the board itself will need to be replaced.