For 2D art usually artists start with pixel art for 2D games. The guy who does art for my games uses photoshop. This is industry standard and is widely used. 3D modelers use programs like 3DS Max or Maya. Blender is a good free alternative.
Otherwise, I can't help you much on the "tools" side, but that seems like what you should do to get started as an artist.
The different topics are basically different styles of art.  Every game will demand its own style, so your best bet is to look into all of them.
If you want to become an artist SERIOUSLY consider going through real, traditional art lessons. Drawing, figure drawing especially, doodle in your notebook, give yourself tasks etc. Constantly draw and paint whatever you want to make. Parallel to that you can teach yourself some poly modeling program along with detailing program - a combo of maya+zbrush or maya+mudbox or 3dsmax+mudbox or modo+zbrush or whatever. 
However, some common threads will pervade amongst everything.  "General drawing", as you say, will probably be something that will be useful wherever you are.
But yes, it depends a lot on the specific game or developers you will be working with.  Until then, there is nothing wrong with looking into a bit of everything.
You see, you need only a few weeks at most to learn any of these programs sufficiently to know pretty much everything you need to know. What then? You are an artist all of a sudden? Just like by learning Word you are a writer? You, hopefully, understand what I'm talking about. 
To get your first clients, you could start by donating artwork to places like OpenGameArt, and then when your art is used, you can add that to your resume. Now that you have some sort of background, in that you can point to say that you have made this and this, you could try to offer your services at a number of game development sites. Just keep going like this, getting a larger and more impressive portfolio.
I'll correct you, since you are wrong. Let's assume you want to become a writer, a good one. Do you just need to learn to read and write and type fast on keyboard and that would be it? Of course not. 
As for vector vs raster, it really does depend on what developers you work with.  Many games on the Flash platform will tend to ask for vector art (moreso than other platforms, in my experience).  Even still, vector graphics are an important part of modeling and you might be able to get away with doing everything as vector graphics and exporting it to raster (which is much harder to do the other way around).  It'll be cleaner.