With respect to the price of Acronis, it is worth what they charge. The latest versions are, in the experience of the businesses we service, extremely stable and very efficient. 
You can download it here, somewhere inside you can find orca.msi, which you need to install. Then open the msi from ghost with orca, and find the table: LaunchCondition. Edit or delete the values, save it under a different name (make a backup before saving!!) and try again. Should work with most programs which work under XP but won't install on 2003
You can run Drive Snapshot as a GUI app, or from the command line. I run it from the command line as part of the Backup script. Restores (of the system partition) can be done by booting from a WinPE (or BartPE) CD, or indeed from a DOS floppy disk.
I have been running Ghost (not the "real" ghost, but the PowerQuest one - Norton Ghost 14) on three of my systems for over a year now and am very happy with it. Fast, easily configurable, schedulable, has compression and encryption..
I'd like to set up something similar on our servers at work. Full system images with incrementals added every few hours to pick up changes to Perforce, stored on a rotating set of 1TB USB drives.
Unfortunately, Ghost doesn't run on Server. We have very simple servers, just basic PowerEdge SATA rack servers. Nothing goofy. I'm certain that Ghost would be able to work on these fine, except for its little flag it checks to make sure it's not running on Server.
I'm not interested in weird command line only utilities or solutions where I have to set up scripts to automate backups. Ghost is absolutely perfect, except that it won't run on Server. What can I do?
The installation checks wether it is running on a server-version of windows. It is possible, and not to hard, to edit the msi-file, to run on all versions of Windows. The easiest way is to use a msi-editor with a nice gui, but the free tool from MS, Orca, should work too.
I strongly recommend Drive Snapshot (www.drivesnapshot.de). I've used this for several years, and I have the current version installed on around 200 servers. I have done many test restores and a few real life restores under high stress conditions, and Drive Snapshot has never let me down.