Until about a week ago, the whole system was working fine, with the NAS connected to the network via Ethernet-Powerline-Powerline-Ethernet. I was able to browse the music collection on the smartphones as well as on the TV and the receiver, and I could make the smartphone take the music from the NAS and play it on the receiver.
I am not sure this is the best place to ask this question, but I am stuck and hope to get some hints from the knowledgeable community. I am having hard time making my DLNA home audio system work.
Then I connected the NAS directly to the router (for faster file transfer, since Powerline seemed to be a bottleneck). I am not sure if the problem appeared immediately and if it is connected to this change of networking at all, but now:
After this, the NAS disappears from the list of libraries and will re-appear after Media Player restart. 
Just to share my experience. I had a similar problem. DLNA players like my smart TV did not see the Synology DLNA media server or the connection dropped after some time. Restarting the media service sometimes helped. 
The Synololgy NAS was connected to my ASUS AC87U router. It looks like this built in switch somehow interfered with the SSDP traffic. I changed the network cable to an external simple unmanaged switch and the problem is gone. All my media players now again directly see the media server :-)
I have a Marantz NR1506 that only sees my dlna server with the samsung tv switched off or with the ethernet cable unplugged from my tv. (i don use the wifi on the tv)
My music collection is stored on a Synology DS414 NAS with Media Server for DLNA support. It used to be connected via Powerline adapters, but now, for the sake of speed, I have connected it directly to the router.
I eventually solved the problem by reinstalling Media Server. It has readjusted the firewall settings. So maybe the problem was there. Now my receiver sees the Diskstation.
I wonder if there is any way I can debug this situation besides trying to restore the previous configuration and trying all over again. It would be difficult, since all these devices are regularly updating themselves, so the problem may potentially have been caused by one of the updates.
So it looks like Synology became practically invisible as a DLNA server (smartphones and AV receiver do not see it, and the Windows computer sees it at first but gives error when trying to playback), except for the fact that the TV sees it perfectly well.