I decided to ping a reliable server, ping google.com -t using a Windows machine, and I see basically fast responses for the pings that reply, but occasional gaps as though the connection was completely absent.
I may be misunderstanding the problem, but at least if it happened with me I will start this way. Also, I'm not realy an expert in TCP to know if the packet lost ratio you're experiencing is enough to explain the low bandwiths and the failed operations.
For TCP, 0.1% packet loss is on the margin of being bad. 1% packet loss is a lot. 10% is unbearable. 
Check what frequency range your WISP is using, and make sure your Wi-Fi home gateway AP is not using the same frequency range. For example, one guy I was helping had a rooftop WISP that used 5.7~5.8 GHz equipment that overlaps with the high end of the 802.11a/n 5GHz band (Wi-Fi channels 149-165), and this guy's simultaneous dual-band Wi-Fi AP's 5GHz radio was was set to channel 149. When he changed it to channel 36, his problems went away.
The timeouts you're seeing are likely due to packet loss (yes, there are packet loss, mainly in wireless links).
If the problem is with your rooftop WISP link and you can confirm that you're not interfering with it with your own Wi-Fi network, then you'll have to speak to your WISP to get them to fix their link. If they can't provide you with less than 1-in-1000 packet loss, explore your other broadband internet alternatives.
If both drop at the same time, you're having Wi-Fi problems. If just the WISP one drops, then your WISP connection is having problems.
Open up two windows, one pinging the private-side IP address of your Wi-Fi home gateway AP, and the other pinging an IP address on the far end of your rooftop WISP link (that is, some IP address at your ISP).
I am trying to troubleshoot a network connection. The connection is wireless, and for the most part works well. (Physical connection from computer to router, physical connection from router to wireless ISP rooftop antenna/dish.) However, sometimes the bandwidth will seem much slower than normal, and various operations (such as uploading a file to gmail) will fail.
You're close to 12% in that example. You certainly need to resolve your packet loss problem first, and then worry about any remaining throughput problems.
To further diagnose the problem I will do bandwith tests mostly comparing UDP and TCP,  as UDP doesn't have this mechanisms for controling congestion.
As you most likely are using TCP for the tasks you refered (uploading files and sending email), the packet lost you're seeing can explain the low bandwiths.
Next step would be to find out where the packet loss occurs. Wireless links are more likely to cause packet loss as there might be other signals on the same frequency. So it would be interesting to see if you can reliably reach your local router (probably) and some host on your ISP's network (probably not).
The TCP protocol doesn't deal very well with packet loss. Packet loss are an implicit method of determining newtork congestion. When a lost packet is detected the congestion window of the TCP protocol lowers what (in simple terms) means that the bandwith will lower too.
Maybe there is some way to get status data for the wireless link like throughput and/or carrier/noise ratio. It might also help to find out if other nearby users of this ISP (who use another wireless link endpoint) have the same problem. If so, there might be a local noise source in your area. In this case you probably cannot do much about it but to inform your ISP who could try to optimize the link or to locate and shut down the noise source.