The second thing you want to pay extra special attention to when going dense is cooling design. At those densities you are crazy if you don't go for a hot\cold aisle layout and the racked kit needs to be designed for that. 20 kilowatts is a lot of heat in something as small as a 42u Rack, and you want to be sure that you can pump it out efficiently with some level of redundancy. Unless you're putting this rack outside in the Arctic you should make sure you have redundant [ideally hot swappable] fans capable of shunting around 150 cubic feet per minute even when one fan has failed (assuming you are cooling 1kw per server and can live with a 20deg hot::cold differential)
Well the intention of dual PSU's is to provide redundancy not additional power as such so your 750Watt units look undersized to me. The server config's you describe are extremely dense - 350-350 for the basic server + 45*10-15Watts for the drives and you are looking at a kilowatt per server and you should be putting in 1.2kw PSU's that can run that with a bit of headroom.
You will also absolutely have to have some sort of phased spin-up for the drives too, start up power draw on drives is about 50% higher than peak power draw under operating load.
As far as overall power draw is concerned those numbers aren't all that insane - that's what happens when you go dense. A rack with 4 fully populated Dell M1000E Blade enclosures will draw somewhere roughly around 16 (+-5) kW  which would be 130A on a 120V supply. The PSU's for those are rated to deliver 2360 watts @ 12V so the max AC draw is around 2500 watts and you need a minimum of 3 to power the chassis up. Their recommended config has 6 PSU's to provide for AC circuit and multiple PSU failures. 
Finally these really are going to be heavy systems. Your server unit is going to weigh something in the range of 160lbs. With 11 of those plus everything else you're planning plus the rack itself the whole thing will quite literally weigh a ton. 
The Backblaze concept benefits from being one component in an integrated solution stack that allows them to treat each server as a hot swappable unit with redundancy baked in higher up the stack in addition to the basic RAID\PSU\Fan redundancy in the storage units themselves. That allows them to use fairly cheap components and not have to put any effort into hot-swap for failed individual components - that tends to be another feature of really dense systems and you'd want to be sure that you can live with that approach. 