You might also try to use the built-in Resource Monitor (included since Windows Vista) or Sysintenals ProcessExplorer to get some information about specific processes and their activity.
Updating device drivers might be a good idea as well. For example if you have an Intel chipset update to latest Rapid Storage Technology driver. Or update your LAN driver.
If nothing helps it might even be a hardware defect. Use Memtest86+ to diagnose memory errors. If all is clean you might try different SATA ports (or even PCIe adapter if available) to identify the broken device. The Intel bug on series-6 SATA-3 ports have shown that not even new hardware is absolutely sure not to be broken. The Intel bug was causing high error rates on SATA ports which could cause re-transmits and transmission errors which could cause such effects too.
Or do it the "easy" way using msconfig utility and temporary disable all services which you don't know for sure that you need them.
In addition to what has been already said please have a look at the event log and look for system error events. In case your HDD is going bad and causes read timeouts there should be an entry produced for such a critical event.
However usually in such event you often even get a BSOD but you did not state that there is any BSOD.
- Registry (64-bit only) HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Wow6432Node\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run
Disconnecting all peripherals (mainly USB/Firewire/eSATA storage) could help identifying the faulty device too. Just don't think something like "well, this old USB HDD cannot be the cause, I am not using it" since Windows or applications might enumerate these devices at random causing some of them to spin up and making Windows wait for the device until ready.
Sounds to me like a power management thing.  System powers down the hard drive, something goes for the hard drive, it gets stuck while the hard drive spins up to service the request.
Regarding the network share: Of course you could have network shares which are unreachable and therefore causing some apps to "freeze" until a timeout has been reached. Try to run net use * /delete /y on command line to disconnect all network drives for a trial.
In general such "hiccups" are most often related to unresponsive hardware devices such as disk drives. For example if a disk drive does not respond so Windows blocks the process until the data is written. Non-Multithreaded applications often appear to "hang" then. Other applications which do not access the same device appear to run normally then unless they access the same unresponsive hardware component.
You might also want to run a virus and spyware check (e.g. running Spybot Search And Destroy). If you want to run an antivirus tool without installing software try Microsoft Safety Scanner.
The other has offered helpful advice, one other thing will also cause this issue is DNS timeouts. Make sure you can resolve names when this happens ... if not then that's it.
Make sure you don't have a really short 'Turn off hard disk after' setting in advanced power settings.  Or, if they're desktop machines, set it to zero so it never turns off the hard disks.
I'd look for a broken network share in the path.... then maybe in the Most-recently-used, or an install-time icon from some pushed software deployment.  The light being on solid is a bit strange though.  If it weren't multiple machines, I'd be tempted to lean towards a hardware problem.  Good luck.