one thing to note: my laptop fan used to come on a lot with hot air being pushed out the sides. Why? it wasn't the CPU - I use Core Temp, so I could see in my tray that CPU was mostly idle (i7).. but from seeing it every day I had a good idea of the CPU temps. Then I decided to move my programming IDE caches to a ramdisk for performance... and yes, it did make the IDE faster. But.. interesting side benefit, temps were around 10-15C cooler for the CPU. and I almost never hear the fan or feel hot air anymore. Seems that constant SSD access heats up the insides of the laptop enclosure. I have a Samsung EVO 850, I'm not sure if it is the same for all SSDs.. but this is an interesting article Power-hungry SSDs: Hotter than disks | ZDNet. However I don't know exactly how this applies to normal SSDs.
You don't mention your ram situation. Do you have enough ram to handle games and videos properly? Also, many new laptops are loaded with bloatware ( software that may run inefficiently in the background ) which may be overworking your CPU. 
I kn ow that his is a old post but wanted to chime I had a Dell xps 15 L501X and i to had overheating problems..  My fix was that i took my whole computer apart took the heat sink off of the CPU and cleaned the really bad thermal paste job that the factory installed.  i then applied high performance thermal paste reinstalled the heat sink.  and since then i have never had another overheating issue.  I would suggest that to you as well as cleaning the whole computer often as they do get clogged with dust easily.  I also installed the SSD to this day i am writing this post three years later and play very high graphics games on my PC and have NEVER HAD ANOTHER ISSUE.  good luck
I have a couple of laptops, and this is a problem on my PC laptop. (My Mac laptop has a metal case, the fan rarely ever goes above very-low speed) 
There are free utilities available at CNET's website that will check for CPU usage when you are not playing games or watching videos. This will give you a clue about what software on your laptop may be using your CPU and possibly causing your system to overheat, slow down and possibly crash.
Before doing anything, consult the owners manual for this laptop. There should be instructions about cleaning the heatsink, or at least enough information about opening it up that you'd be confident (if you've done this sort of thing before, or are good at being careful).
If you can see the CPU fan, you want to TAKE CARE to power off the laptop, then (with power off) use a pen or paper clip to keep the fan immobilized while you blow compressed air in.  The reason for this is compressed air could spin the fan at speeds greater than it was designed for, and wear or fail the fan bearings.