I wrote a script in Apple Script Editor to constantly check my connection via ping and write collapses into a log file (see here, if you are interested or have the same problem). The script pings a certain IP (in my case google 8.8.8.8) for a set time with a given interval. The following log resulted when I pinged every nine minutes (every 540s [on collapse retry every second] for about two hours):
Other tenants seem to have similar problems but not that serious. Even my landlord has this problem and, in addition, has trouble with his VOIP phone line, which also disconnects from time to time. Also his network printers seem to change their network IP, which should be static.
Is the inconsistent VOIP of my landlord also connected to my problem? Or could it have something to do with the installation of fibre-optic connection 2 years ago? (He has experienced trouble himself since then...)
(Other tenants which have their own internet plan which a different company don't seem to experience such problems. Or at least I do not know about them, because they would of course contact their provider instead of our landlord.)
At my new place this is not the case. When I plugin the ethernet cable, it takes up to two minutes to connect (i.e. get internal IP, establish connection, etc.) Then after about 10 minutes it disconnects. I get an error message within the browser which states that the requested page is not reachable (my not sure about the actual time, because the browser only checks the connection when I request a new page) - and the whole process starts anew: Wait to connect - connection established for 10 min. - disconnection.
It is quite astonishing. My connection drops after 550-560 seconds (9 minutes 10-20 seconds; maybe after 10 minutes exactly, because I only check every 9 minutes and miss some of the drop time?) und then has up to 2.5 minutes to be reestablished.
A third lead of mine, and a more probable one, is that this is a IP assignment problem. Could it be that the router assigns the same IP to different devices and therefore confuses the order of information distribution? (Although my laptop is always assigned 192.168.0.164 when automatic assignation is chosen)...
I tried manually setting the service order and IP etc. in the internet preferences as certain forum pages recommend.
When I ping every second for an hour the problem does not occur that often (only one drop instead of ten). I guess this is because the connection is used very frequently in the latter test.
I therefore deduce that this could be a DHCP lease problem on the router (too early "renewal request" - I don't know how exactly this works... - by the router?). Could this be? Can I resolve this by reconfiguring the router?
Fix periodically disconnecting internet connection. I.e. maintain constant connection to internet (browsing etc.) while wired to router (ethernet).
I've recently moved. At my new place I share the internet plan with a couple of other tenants, including my landlord. In my old flat I had no problems connecting my MacBook to the internet and staying connected: Plug in ethernet cable = immediate internet connection that does not disconnect.
Another one of my leads, though an illogical one,  is that this is a port assignment problem, because other services, like receiving mail with the mail application, seem (not sure) to be connected more constantly than my browser (compare to diagnosis tool also).  Could this be? I thought port 80 is exclusively used to browse and cannot be used by anything else, though...? Could port-forwarding solve this?