Add up auxiliary loads, stuff that doesn't need to be on UPS- stereo speakers, radios, fans (20 computer labs can get warm in Summer), toaster ovens, microwave ovens, TV's, under-desk foot warmers and anything else that plugs into the wall.
Now that you have power under control, you need to consider cooling. Does the room have its own thermostat? Are you working in Toronto or San Jose? Are there windows that open? Are there return vents? Take your wattage sums to your Physical Plant or HVAC vendor and ask them if you have enough tons of cooling to cover the load. Ask them if you need to run the A/C in the Winter. If so, is there another way to distribute the heat?
Now. Decide what needs UPS, what needs mere protection, and what doesn't. Consider the power reliability in your area. If it is shaky, put all computers on UPS and everything else on Brick Walls or Tripp Lite Isobar's. If it is very good, put the most critical computers on UPS, the rest of computers on BW/TLI, and everything else on cheap power strips.
Then, sum up 3 totals, all idle (lab during lunch break, all computers on), light usage and heavy usage for all 20 computers.
You need to get readings on each type of server (hopefully you don't have 20 different types, but if you do you need readings on each.)  You can get readings with a Kill-A-Watt or a Watts-Up meter (I like the International version (UO) of the Watts-up because it handles 120-240 input voltages and servers are more efficient with higher voltages.)
Don't just sum up the wattage rating of the power supplies. Computers usually draw some fraction of their P/S rating.
Like toppledwagon said, you need readings from something like a Kill-A-Watt. You need idle, light usage (web surfing/reading e-mail) and busy (running you most intensive application) readings from representative computers. That is, if you have 3 different kinds of computer configurations in your lab, you need 3 sets of 3 readings.
Now, determine how many circuits you have in the room and what breakers they are on. This is easy. Get a US$10 circuit tester, plug it in and push the button. This will pop the circuit breaker on that circuit. Then, see how many outlets went dead. Repeat until you have identified all circuits in the room. 