I'll answer question #3 by telling you what happened after finding the dead HD in the Mac Pro.  I replaced the drive with only a few minutes of down-time.  I replaced it AND added a third drive as a hot spare.  So I now have 3 HDs acting like one storage device, i.e. a single "drive," of 500GB.  Again, no one can tell the difference.
The real reason that this is important is that it means that there is no such thing as a drive "taking over" when another drive fails.  They're both in constant use.  Case in point:  I had a Mac Pro with two 500GB drives in a RAID-1 array at work.  One day I randomly checked that server and discovered that one of the drives was actually dead for the last few months.  No one noticed a difference.  This computer was the file server for an entire elementary school.
3) It depends.  Some systems automatically start a rebuild of replaced drives, others require manual intervention to force a rebuild.
3) Even if your system automatically rebuilds an array if possible, beware that "1 TB" disk is actually a vendor-dependent term. Depending on your setup, the initial process may have claimed all blocks in those disks. If you get a replacement "1 TB" drive later, even from the same vendor, it may have less blocks. In that case, you won't be able to use it as a replacement. You'll have to get a disk with the same or larger number of blocks being used in the array. Therefore, it is often advisable to limit the array to a number of blocks which most "1 TB" disks should fulfill. Usually 1 TB - a few blocks ~ (10^12 - 100 )B  is quite safe. And of course it also depends on the drive partitioning alignment.
As a side note:  Please note that RAID is NOT a backup solution.  I have had situations [plural] where I've lost data in a RAID array.  My backups were well worth their expense those days.
4) In all the systems I've seen, that's an unsupported operation.  You might be able to get away with it, but you're not using it the way it's meant to be.  I suspect that in most cases you'll lose the changes made.  You could possible corrupt the whole array too I suppose.
Keep in mind that RAID-1 is a way to make 2 drives act like one.  So when you write to "storage," you will be writing to both drives.  When you read a file, it will read from whichever disk is available first.  Theoretically, this makes a penalty on writes and a boost on reads.  In reality, you might not notice a speed difference.
Why not use RAID 5 instead of mirroring?  With more than 2 drives, it usually makes more sense -- it'll keep running if any single drive fails (like a mirror), but it only uses one drive for redundant data (unlike a mirror, which uses half of the drives for redundancy).  You could either config it as a single 4-drive RAID (with 3TB capacity), or a 3-drive RAID (2TB capacity) with a hot spare it'll automatically rebuild onto in case of a failure.