Websense is a good program ...  I suspect the issues you are attributable to having related to how websense is configured rather than to problems with websense.  More candidly .. if the current admins implemented something else (like Astaro), they would configure it with similar restrictions. 
I'd love to not have to use filtering software / hardware at my Customer sites. It would make life easier for me, and would be one less point of failure for the Customer. If / when the legal climate changes, that might be a possibility.
Websense isn't an "all or nothing" solution, there are very granular levels of policy which can be set to apply to different groups and users.  When you make your case (in as friendly and civil a manner as possible, remember), you will be wanting to request an access policy for yourself and other developers that does block genuinely objectionable material but that leaves access open to technical sites and software downloads.
It's also worth bearing in mind that the Websense site database is provided externally, and that your admins have no control over the site categorisation in it, aside from the ability to override it for specific named sites.  Websense have been known to make mistakes in the past, and at least some of the frustration you're experiencing may be nothing more than an honest accident.
Where I work we only block adult material.  And you would be surprised how many false positives that generates.  I think sometimes it tags any web traffic coming from a particular IP or subnet as pornography.  Hosts that live on shared hosting accounts tend to get blocked as well as blogs from time to time.  We just have an system where an employee can put in a support ticket to get a particular url white listed.
Your company (assuming it's in the United States) is filtering access to the Internet, probably in large part, because they want to show their "due diligence" in protecting against claims of a "hostile workplace environment" (see http://www.fcc.gov/owd/understanding-harassment.html). Most likely, it has very little to do with "trusting employees", and more to do with fear of legal claim.
Talking about "downloading Firefox" gets into desktop support issues. That's a huge can of worms, and one that's bigger than your question. You may need "Administrator" access to your computer to do your job, but there may be good reasons why that's not feasible either. There are corporate liability concerns associated with allowing users to download and install any software they want, and there are productivity concerns associated with not.
I think you're taking the wrong approach.  You really need to sit down and talk (in as friendly and civil a manner as possible) to your administrators about this.  If you have a clear business case for downloading Firefox or other software, or accessing technical sites that would be blocked for the general user populace, then something needs to be done about the policy implemented (which I suspect may be one of the out-of-the-box defaults from the sound of it).
With rational conversation and evidence, you may well be able to get them to loosen things up for you.
I can't provide you with a "solution", but since you didn't mention it in your post, I thought I'd point this out:
Finally, and the real clincher, is that your admins may be utterly powerless to do anything here.  They may be in a position where they have a strict directive from on-high, and they may have already pleaded the case and failed.  So don't go too hard on them.
One note .. you need to have clean hands. If your issues are around chat, Twitter, BitTorrent, or personal stuff, get over it.  You might be able (with embellishment) to justify why you need to be able to IM, because developers are special, but the admins won't budge on that sort of stuff.  These restrictions and filtering programs came about for a reason, most admins hate them, and most would much rather set them to filter porn only and be done with it.  But the business reality doesn't allow that.
It's not the system it's the configuration.  Replacing websense with a different web content filter system is not going to resolve all your issues if it's not configured properly.
2- After a week or so, take this log to whoever administers the system, and show them how the restrictions are causing you trouble and slowing you down. 
1- keep a log of what (specifically) you are doing that is getting blocked or causing you interruption or workaround.  
Legal issues aside, I have been in favor, for some time, of using management to solve managemnet problems. Websense, as a example, is able to generate reports that can be supplied to managers to help them monitor their staff's Internet usage. To my mind, it's not the IT department's job to decide the appropriateness of an employee's Internet usage. That's what their manager's job is-- managing that employee and making decisions about their continued employment based on their performance.