Any general advice on hunting down the issue(s)?  Anything I should be paying special attention to?  If it is only the cable modem, what's the best way to solve it -- an isolator?
I found an article on solving ground loops, but I'd love to confirm that these symptoms are all related to that issue, and make sure I'm not dealing with multiple loops.
I had a computer a couple years ago which wouldn't reboot if a flash drive (or anything USB with storage) was plugged in.  That part turned out to be a BIOS setting, it was trying all 'removable drives' before the hard drive, and the hard drive turned out to be the boot device of last resort after a 10-minute time out (it was a freaky BIOS, let me tell you).  
The sound card issue could be grounding, but a simple check would be the volts (not ohms) between the bare metal of the case and a known ground, like an outlet ground pin if you know that's good or a water pipe.  Then you could check voltage between your PC and the cable connector as well.  Running your ethernet cable through a UPS 'filter' should match that ground to the PC's as well.
So, at least I've given you the possibility that all three of your issues are completely unrelated.  I certainly can't prove that they aren't related, but these are just the first three things that popped into my head.
The audio connection part:  Are you running Vista/Windows 7?  Windows post-Vista contains 'protection' routines that disable your analog audio outs when 'protected' (hi-def) content is played with a media player.  Only digital (in this case your digital out and an internal Aux) outputs are supported so that you can't redirect audio data to a tape recorder (the 'analog hole').  More here.
(I assume I should be stripping the machine down, disconnecting and unplugging it, and adding components one at a time to test...)
If you already suspect the modem, I'd suggest that rather than stripping the machine down and adding one component at a time, it may be easier to first remove the modem and see if that fixes it.