Of course this is not comprehensive study with statistical significance, but I can't see why not. We are even using SSD (Intel X25-M 40GB) for search index (updated continuously) and for swap files without problems.
We went with the X-25m's in about 4,000 laptops. We have had a few issues, some fixed by a firmware update.. others that were just bad drives.. but really, we are looking at about 1%-2% higher error rate than what we saw with the standard 7200rpm laptop drives.  When you figure in the power, weight, and especially speed savings (we went from a 10 minute boot with XP and 7200rpm laptop drives because of all sorts of drivers and software and AV, to a 2 min boot with Win7 and an SSD) we would still choose the SSD's every day of the week, and twice on Sunday.
Yes, we have plenty of users using SSDs, and there is no single problem. We had multiple failures with disk controllers (most probably not related to SSDs) and few broken HDDs but no single problem with SSDs.
Since my fist ssd (intel I have los t 0 GB from any ssd ever owned (that intel, evo 840 120GB, 2x evo 840 250G and 1x evo 500G), same goes for other flash media like usb keys, sd cards, memory in phones.
We had all sorts of HD's die for all sorts of reasons.. (when you have that many laptops, a 2% error rate means about 80 drives per year!)  A good backup is critical, no matter what drive technology you use..
An Intel presentation we saw said that the SLC based SSD drives were recommended for heavy database and file usage.  They are much, much more expensive, and designed for things like SANs...  We use SQL express pretty heavily as well, on most of our laptops, and went with the MLC based ones.
Brand makes a big difference. The Intel drives are known to be the most reliable - just use newegg reviews to compare. You were using OCZ - if reliability is a big concern, stick with Intel.
During the same time 5 HDD died and took the data with them. An old WD 80GB SATA, an old Maxtor 320GB IDE and 3 less then a year old WD 1TB green SATA drives. n=1 so make of this what you will.