Assuming an "average" default installation of SQL Server, sitting down at your server right now, you will not be able to determine this information. By default, SQL does not log or track this kind of activity.
Chris mentioned going reviewing the transaction log and extracting what information is present there. This would work, but SQL 2005 does not provide any "native" functionality for sifting through transaction logs. You would need a third-party tool to do so. And that only applies for as long as that data is in the transaction log; if the database recovery mode is set to "simple", that data will be wiped from the log--sooner rather than later. (If your database is actively used, it may already be gone.)
Remus Rusanu outlined how to query the system trace. Very cool, I'm upvoting that one! As he said, this too has a limited shelf life--you should probably make copies of those files now before they get overwritten.
(There are a number of ways you can log this information (DDL triggers), but that doesn't help you now--it would only help with future activity.)
As for who dropped it (or rather, via which SQL login was it dropped), unless you've got some intentionally configured process installed and running, I do not believe you can extract that information. A starting point would be to determine who (rather, which logins) could perform the drop, and go from there. Is your SQL installation configured to log succesful logins in the Windows Event logs? Is the domain set to track domain logins? ...though neither will help if SQL authentication was involved.
If the above tactics are not possible, restoring and reviewing backups might track down when it occured. This again depends on your recovery mode and whatever backup files you have. If you can do point-in-time recoveries on transaction log backups, you should be able to get a pretty close estimate on when it was dropped; If you only have complete or differential backups, you'll get less precision (e.g. was there in the 1:00pm backup, was not in the 2:00pm backup, must have been dropped between 1 and 2.)