Ignoring secure-delete (which probably isn't that important) for a minute, the most notable history trace you'll gather that isn't removed by Firefox's “Clear Recent History” option is Flash data storage. The storage control feature of Flash is unfortunately separate and has unusable controls which don't even delete the full history.
On Windows and Ubuntu, you can use the individual browser's cleaning function. For Windows you could also use CCleaner to get rid of all browsers history, cookies and settings.
On Linux you can remove these properly by deleting .adobe and .macromedia in your home directory. (It's a problem on Windows too, similarly requiring futzing around in Application Data.) A good longer-term strategy is to use Flashblock, to stop every untrustted site and ad network dropping unwanted cookie-like storage and history traces.
Short of setting off an EMP every time you want to clear your history, any system that keeps your history in RAM and doesn't write it to disk will probably do what you want. Its easier to never have something to remove than to remove something once its there.
There are still router logs, so you'll want to clear those too. And records of your DNS look-ups, so you may want to go with a service like Open DNS where you can turn off the history feature. And still route through TOR just to be sure.
Personally, I see from Molly's comments, you are concerned about the whole infrastructure - logs etc.
You'd probably get a better answer if you were clearer on what you were trying to do and why. If all you want to do is brows porn without your significant other seeing, you'll get one answer. If you're trying to look for another job from work without the boss knowing you'll get a different answer. 
All this being said, do not do anything illegal!... That is the best way to not get into trouble for browsing!
However, if someone really wants to trace what you have been doing, they will try to find a way - ask ISP for sites visited if they keep logs... if they see a proxy server, they can ask them for logs... Your best hope is an ISP that doesn't keep many logs or perhaps using a VPN type service in a foreign country.
Next, as for your actual machine, you really want to run all the usual tools such as CCleaner to clear out your local machine from every day objects. This should work well, but there is always a remote chance someone can recover your files - You may want to look in to either trashing your hard drive, or doing a complete wipe with something like DBAN.
Do not try at work or any machine you do not own. You simply do not know what monitoring tools are installed, there could be keyloggers, or ANYTHING that sends everything to a remote location completely outside of your control.
Lastly, infrastructure - Logs are kept at many different levels. Your ISP will have various logs that can contain information on sites visited, your routers DNS can have a cache (but it is usually wiped after a few hours)... Your best bet is to use a web based proxy service or even better TOR.
You could use a Bart PE disk or an Ubuntu live CD for your browsing - that way when you re-boot there's nothing to recover as nothing was saved to disk. 