Save this file onto a common location between your OSes (easiest way is probably a removable flash drive), and in the Windows Firefox, go back into your Bookmarks and select the option to import your bookmarks.
While I haven't tested this myself (I don't have a version of Linux running right now) it appears that all versions of Firefox will export and import the same file formats, so there shouldn't be any problem changing between OSes.
To export the bookmarks to HTML file, open Firefox, then press "Ctrl + Shift + B" to "Show all the bookmarks". In the resulting window click the "Import and Backup" menu and select
You could either use Firefox Sync or just export the bookmarks to HTML file in Linux and import it in Windows copy of Firefox.
Be sure to let me know if this isn't the case, if I have to I'll get my old crapbook running again and fool around with Linux to see if we can get an answer.
Open up Firefox, click Firefox (orange text), click 'Bookmarks', then click Backup under 'Import and Backup' on the top navigation bar.  Copy/Save the backup file to usb. Then do the same on the  Windows computer just click Import and select the file.
Alternatively, you can manually export your bookmarks by going into your Bookmarks Library in Linux (click Bookmarks | Show All Bookmarks | Import and Backup).  Either the default JSON or HTML backups will suffice.
Firefox uses the same type of bookmark file on Windows and Linux.  You can copy the fix places.sqlite from the Linux Firefox profile and copy it into the Windows Firefox profile (places.sqlite stores your bookmarks and browsing history).  You can find the Linux and Windows profiles by following the steps below:
On Linux, when you open up Firefox, click Firefox (orange text) press 'Set up Sync'. Then create an account ... Then enter you account details to the Windows computer.
It should be pretty simple to do this. In Firefox, go to your Bookmarks > Unsorted Bookmarks tool (or on some versions, Bookmarks > Organize Bookmarks) and find the option to export your bookmarks. 