It doesn't seem to be overly wacko-paranoid to observe that Microsoft is good at stamping out competition.  All they need to do is tweak things just a bit in each service pack & patch to make sure things don't translate quite right, and they continue to lock me in, because I don't have the resources to handle the additional support requests.
Every year or two, I install OpenOffice and the problem is the same - documents don't format/translate quite right to/from their MS Office counterparts.
For something like a change like that you are going to need to sell it to everybody and cover every base.  
Call me a pessimist, but I would stick with Office right now if it is in the budget. If you are looking to slash some costs, you could switch over to OO but support is going to be a headache for you and your IT staff.
My organization moved last summer to fully run on Office 2007 and dispite the training curve it seemed to go pretty smoothly so I would presume a migration to Openoffice would be similar.  We had a large number of preview sessions and made very clear in our communication what to expect and to let them know there would be NO exceptions to the migration.  We had Training on board with it and using Office 2007 for several months beforehand (Our IT department had been using it for a year beforehand).  We discovered application issues with one program, ADP/HR Perspective that was tied in extremely close to Office 2000/2003 and wouldn't run if we left only 2007 on the machine (Fortunantly Access 2003 could co-exist with an Office 2007 installation so we were able to avoid the application issue, with OpenOffice we would have been stuck requireing office licenses anyway)  It went smooth and as people have become familiar with it they realize they like it a lot.
Remember to take politics into account too, some battles could be a phyric victory and cause you ill will with people you may need support on for something else.  Personal opinion is there is no compelling reason why OO.org is better than Office.  Its just technology for technologies sake.  If you were starting up and didn't have all the other functionality then yes, it might be a good choice.  Right now, your better off spending the money on getting everybody to at least office 2003 and continuing the momentum with sharepoint
Microsofts ODF support is pretty shaky (It creates a to the spec file but OpenOffice can't open them, this is an issue with the spec and some areas left up to interpetation)  Although this can be considered much like OO.org's .docs not being correct either.