My Mac pro does the same thing. Any drive, SD card or USB jump drive will show the "not ejected properly" warning every-time my Mac pro 5,1 comes out of deep sleep. This only happens on my USB3 PCI card. I have 2 Datatale removable drive enclosures on eSata with no ejection problems. Recently bought a OWC USB3 Dual Drive dock, since I can't get the Datatale enclosures anymore. Was hoping they wouldn't act like my USB 3 desktop hub, but unfortunately, I get the warning now on the Seagate drives in it. I plugged the dock into the Mac pro USB 2 port in the rear and the warnings have completely gone away. While I've lost USB 3 speed in dock's hard drives, I'm only using them as a archive back-up system, so once I copied over the vast amount of info on USB3, USB2 is fine for incremental backups using smart update with SuperDuper. Others tell you to uncheck "put the drives or computer to sleep  when ever possible" in the OS System Energy saver preferences, but that defeats the deep sleep feature of shutting down the drives and computer when not in use. Perhaps someone makes a USB3 PCI that won't eject the disks, but for now, the USB2 solution works fine and no more annoying and possibly digit damaging eject drive warnings :-) 
Turn off Spotlight for your external drivers in System Preferences -> Spotlight -> Privacy, and they will not be ejected when the computer is sleeping. I found this solution here.
Ok so this is a relatively new one for me, I recently upgraded my computer, both to Yosemite and installing a USB3 Card from Sonnet.  I have downloaded the drivers for the Sonnet card, and everything works great with it.  However when my computer goes to sleep and then wakes back up, I am left with the alert that a drive was not ejected properly. It will list any and all USB 3 drives only that were connected and mounted.  However when waking back up those drives will still be mounted on the computer.
I have a 27" IMAC 14.2  late 2013 using Sierra 10.12.5 and in Energy Saver of system preferences have checked only the first box-prevent computer from sleeping automatically when display is off.  This seems to work and am not getting the disk not ejected properly so far.  Will see if this continues to work.
So I am not sure what is causing the message, or if the drives are actually being disconnected, but something seems to be amiss.