Running them together would be even worse as they'd be fighting each other (if it worked at all due to locking).
Also, what if they were running at the same time? Deadlock? Livelock? Or maybe no problem, just finishing twice as fast (doubt this, as I/O is bottleneck I'm sure)?
No, it is a bad idea. Different defragmenters have slightly different ideas about where to move certain bits of data to. This means that if you defrag using product X, and then using product Y, you'll be undoing some of product X's work. If you were to then run product X again, you'd go back to product X's version of defragged and product Y would consider it not fully defragged.
The defragger that comes with Windows is not exactly clever when it comes to ordering the files. It consolidates each file into one block but does not move the files which are regularly accessed together. That's why sometimes, an alternative (like the free-of-charge MyDefrag or the free Jkdefrag) comes in handy.
No, as others said, you shouldn't try to run different defragmenters on the same data, and some can be unreliable.  I tend to stick with the filesystem tools that come with the filesystem itself these days (that is, usually the tools supplied with the OS), as filesystems are quite complex lately, and updated regularly in various ways.
Not willing to try this out on my only computer, but it occurred to me that using multiple hard drive defragmenters might be a good idea, or might be disastrous. I'm not asking for which defragmenter is best, but if you could get better results from running different defragmenters in sequence.
Also note that modern filesystems automatically manage fragmentation to some extent or another, and defragmentation is starting to become less necessary.  The official Microsoft training materials for XP actually say something very similar to "Defragmentation isn't really necessary with NTFS, but it does make users feel better, as it's something they can do themselves to improve their system."