I am hoping to be able to tweet and blog while at the convention but I also don't want my server hacked and all the fun that goes with that. If you also have any other general advice for a defcon virgin please comment over on my blog at http://geek.michaelgrace.org/2009/07/advice-for-a-defcon-virgin/ so this can focus on keeping my computer and internet connection secure during the defcon convention. All your input and advice is much appreciated.  ;)
Unless you really know what you are doing do not connect to any networks that could in any way be controlled by anyone else at DefCon. Turn off any onboard wireless, power it off if you can. Playing it safe, putting up firewalls, using SSH\SSL for everything, checking certs, strong passwords is all well and good but there will be people there who craft zero-day exploits against well secured systems for a living and anything that connects to a network there is viewed as fair game. For an example of why this might be a bad idea - especially at this years DefCon - read this VRT blog post about an exploit in dhclient that enables an attacker to leverage a bug in the DHCP client of affected systems to initiate an attack. Your Mac isn't vulnerable to this one but for systems that are no amount of shutting down services\enabling firewalls\using SSH will help, as soon as you try to get a network connection you've been nailed. 
I have never attended a Defcon convention before and I am very excited to be attending this year. I need some help in making sure I am prepared for the event.
A 3G\EVDO card that connects to your cellular provider will be reasonably safe as will your iPhone's Cellular connection but you absolutely should not leave an iPhone's WiFi enabled at something like DefCon. 
To be ultra-paranoid, configure your firewall to drop all outgoing traffic and only allow stuff that you explicitly want, and that you're sure is either encrypted or not sensitive. For example, it'd suck if you logged in to your machine and your AIM client decided to connect, promptly sending your password in clear text.
If possible, don't even connect directly to your own server, even through SSH. Set up a Dreamhost account or something and tunnel the SSH through there. By making a connection of any kind to your own server, you're pointing to it as a potential target!