You could run your own DNS servers and multiple colos on multiple servers and setup failover and clustering.  Either using windows or linux, you can setup single shared resources that are shared between servers, preferably over a point to point or vpn, and when one server/location goes down within seconds the next available server picks up the shared resource such as ip addresses.  I have a similar solutions running at my orginization, we have multiple buildings, each building as a DNS server as well as some other windows and linux servers, sans and such.  Majority of the servers are setup in a failover cluster so if one building explodes, the network is still up.  For example, our dhcp servers have and ip address in it that is a shared ip between 3 dns servers, i can unplug 2 of the 3 dns servers and that single ip address would just point to the remaining alive server.  This is real easy to do with Windows 2008 clustering, and you can do it for real cheap with linux and drbd (http://www.drbd.org/).
nameserver 1 is on one box and nameserver 2 is on the other. So if one server fails, the other will take over.
As a variant of suggestions offered here, you can continue with your existing registrar as long as they provide the ability to make a Zone Transfer. Look for another provider that accepts zone transfers as well. 
You could also move your name servers and DNS zones to a registrar that has a more robust and resilient infrastructure, such as Network Solutions.
this is an old thread but still, you're only looking at dns service. Wrong. If your server goes down, no matter how reliable your external dns provider is , you're down.
On your zone file, add a few more NS records for this provider  (preferably geographically distributed). Once this setup is complete, you should have NS records from more than one DNS provider returned in a DNS query. Make sure your Zone Transfers are set up. After the change your nameservers might look like this: 
If all that work or cost of hardware is not a viable option, you can look at DNS providers that guarantee 4 or 5 9's up-time and have multiple servers in colos around the US.  I don't know of any of those providers for DNS but i'm sure there are services offered but alot of the registrars out there such as places like godaddy.com
When provider1 goes down, a recursive DNS server would merely time out on the first two NS and proceed with the next one. This way, even if a geographically-distributed, robust DNS provider goes offline, you are still online with provider2.