Unfortunately in both cases (vm or native) your issue will be the touchscreen drivers.  Windows 7 is less likely to have them, and the manufacturer less likely to support them.
Windows 7 works a lot better with classic desktop apps and touch input as it lets you open the keyboard on text fields with a pop-up keyboard icon or the taskbar icon.  Windows 8 requires the use of the taskbar icon or if the taskbar is covered a swipe right-left, settings, keyboard, "touch keyboard and handwriting panel" to get an on-screen keyboard.  If you do not use metro apps Windows 7 has better tablet support (minus the g-sensor issue).  The screen can still be rotated by manually selecting the orientation in screen resolution control panel.
So I definitively suggest you to acquire a cheap ultraportable laptop/notebook rather than a tablet.
If the tablet is powerful enough (lots of ram basically), you could keep the Windows 8 and run a virtual machine that has Windows 7.  Even if you went with the native approach you could try that first.
If you want Windows 7 functionality, in a windows 8 tablet, try http://www.classicshell.net/ . It's true freeware (w/o ads), and will give you a choice of Windows 2000, Windows XP, or Windows 7 GUIs in Windows Vista, 7, and 8/8.1. It's truly a magic-bullet for the malignant GUI beast.
Anyway, the term tablet often refers to small and light devices mostly controlled by fingers. The size of the screen would not be a problem for Windows 7, but the lack of mouse and keyboard will be.
You may bybass the problem with USB keyboard and mouse if your tablet has USB ports... but it will transform your tablet to a ... netbook ! 
Yes, it is possible since your tablet has an x86 architecture (or amd64...), but these devices are not so frequent on the market. Tablets usually have an ARM architecture, and as mentioned by Journeyman, Windows (non RT)-based tablets will be expensive.
One note of caution though, to enjoy full functionality, you will need some way to right-click the menus... Either through some touch interface in windows 8 (yes, windows 8 is still running the show, but it doesn't "feel" like it), or through a small bluetooth mouse.
I just got a Taichi 21 and upgraded Windows 8 to Windows 7 on the Laptop.  Almost everything works with a combination of the Windows 8 and 8.1 drivers drivers except for the automatic screen rotation (accelerometer or g-sensor).  There is no unsupported device in device manger so I am unsure why it doesn't work but, as it turns out Windows 8 and 8.1 drivers probably will work in Windows 7. 