I'm using Logitech mouse and was having this erratic problem until I update to Logitech latest driver version and install the Logitech Smooth Scrolling for Chrome.
After failing attempts of the things mentioned in answers and comments I also put on Windows 7 OS thinking if any virus causing this will be removed but even after installing OS the issue tortured me.
First, you update your driver. HP Notebook PCs - Using the TouchPad or ClickPad (Windows 10).Disable the scrolling in the settings shown on the document above, and test if that would stop the auto scrolling.
After some other attempts I unplugged mouse and keyboard individually and plugged in keyboard and mouse of my friend's 
Finally after lot of struggle I solved  this issue it was not mouse but keyboard causing this issue of auto scroll.
I would look towards drivers that can impact scrolling, such as Logitech SetPoint, Microsoft Keyboard and mouse center, and also touchpad drivers which can have settings such as scrolling when your touch is against the far side of the pad. For instance, you could reboot into Safe Mode by tapping F8 repeatedly while the computer is booting up, so you see the startup options menu and can choose Safe Mode (with networking, if you want to use the Internet, but see below for caution). This would start your computer with most drivers disabled, so you can immediately eliminate or confirm this without going and uninstalling them individually. I would caution against using the Internet if you see that safe mode also disables any antivirus / antimalware protection you have installed. Safest just to open Word documents or something local that you can check the scrolling in.
Hardware wise, there are a few keyboards with a wheel, lever, knob, or joystick type control which can be set to scroll as one of their functions. If you have any such device on your keyboard, you can try moving it to see if it seems to be more sensitive in one direction (the direction in which you are seeing scrolling issues). It may have gone off center just enough to be sensitive to changes in temperature and humidity in your room, thus the intermittent part of the issue.