Then I found dedicated HDMI over wireless hardware claiming to be able to do 1080p but with a range of only 30 feet.  Depending on where I put the PC and my butt that might work.  Lugging a small monitor outside is not a problem.
I am unaware of wireless options, though I am sure they are out there, that will allow the same setup as the KVM.  My suggestion here would stem from the plethora of wireless devices I've used in both business and personal scenarios.  Do a lot of research before you buy, if you can try before you buy all the better.  You may run into the same issue with very long cables, degradation of the signal.
However, you are in luck since there are KVM switch options out there that will allow you to sit outside while gaming and have the same experience as sitting in front the the desk.  I've used KVM switches extensively while gaming and have had zero issues with it.  Just get a powered one and cables long enough depending on how far away you are going to be.  It will help prevent any issues with the electricity voltage being with every foot that it travels, which would be the only issue with running wires any amount of distance as it does degrade the higher the chance of problems.
Your options are really limited without the scope that has been set.  Having tried Remote PC options to game over the network, I have found that I always go back to just sitting in front of the old lug under the desk.
VGA, DVI and HDMI can all go over CAT-5 in either "passive" or "active" modes.  Not sure what the difference is except "passive" is ~$30 and "active" is ~$300.  With some a little bit of extra 802.11 hardware you can probably make that wireless.
@AngelBrighteyes' answer sent me off on a hunt for dedicated video-over-wireless hardware and I found some interesting options.
And finally with a wireless keyboard/mouse (hang the receiver outside the window to make sure the signal can get to it). And you should be able to comfortably sit outside with a monitor and play your favorite games while your tower stays inside. Though the one thing you may want to do is setup a KVM so that with the keyboard you can switch between "outside" and "inside" monitor without having to mess with cables.
If you are that attached to the MacBook there MAY be an adapter for you to view a VGA monitor on your laptop. Then you COULD use synergy to control your desktop. The one thing I want to say is that I have noticed synergy on a wireless connection can be a bit unreliable.
I'd suggest to take a look at the performance experiment they did; the figures are quite impressive except for network load that is sometimes very slightly over the already deceased OnLive or StreamMyGame. http://www.gaminganywhere.org/perf.html
The final piece is either a wireless USB hub or a wireless keyboard and mouse with a very good range.  I would likely opt for the hub as it would allow me to use any device and I could spend the money on one piece of quality kit.
They do make remote KVM devices, sometimes called DRACs (Dell Remote Access Card) - though I don't know what the quality is especially for gaming or video. I imagine as long as the bandwidth was available it could be as if you were sitting in front of it. I think gigabit to the server/gaming machine and Wireless N or better to your remote (wireless) console.