Second... One Gbps and OpenVPN... really ? I'd recommend laying down some napalm on your OpenVPN installation, waiting a bit for it to absorb and just burning it all down. There's clearly something wrong with an installation that requires speed this high and OpenVPN - something designed so lateral and compatible with itself only... (yeah, yeah I know, plenty of qualified "home" engineers use OpenVPN and "everything is okay", but this thing is called scalability - it's when you can use the same technology to handle 1 units or 1000 units of same type - and OpenVPN just isn't one of these scalable  solutions) After all, may be it's encryption, that really kills your bandwidth ? You didn't show any CPU stats while getting to the top of the speed, and, considering OpenVPN designers and programmers complicated relationships with reality, I wouldn't be that suprised seeing OpenVPN eating all the CPU.
There's OS network stack buffers, and there's OpenVPN network buffers. OpenVPN is all the way intending to reinvent the wheel, so the situation with buffers isn't surprising. First of all, you should ensure you are having enogh buffers in OS, I'd recommend setting sndbuf/rvcbuf to 0, tweak OS buffers and watch the effects - this way you won't get the chicken/egg dilemma.
Final advice (one that you probably won't follow, but still; plus - I just like the irony of wasting good advice) you should take a good look on your installation and find some good reason to have 1 Gpbs encrypted between two points, instead of just using some secure transport like dedicated link of vlan; and if you really do, you should consider moving to some standard solution, like IPsec between dedicated devices - ones that either have onboard accelerator (like Cisco and Juniper), or, at least can benefit from AES-NI while running it in software. But 1 Gbps link, from my point of view, must be handled by some decent dedicated equipment. Hint: if you don't have a funding needed, you probably don't need encryption at all.