We have the same issue on Windows 2008 R2. And we have "Unknown USB Device" in Windows Device Manager. After pressing several tens on "Reset USB" on IPMI Web interface the device is detected correctly and mouse and keyboard start to work. 
is loaded, the ukbd came alive, and I'm typing this on the IPMI Console. " source: http://freebsd.1045724.n5.nabble.com/IPMI-Console-No-luck-once-OS-is-booted-td3967868.html
My motherboard has 3 PCI-E Slots:  Slot 1 is x8, Slot 2 is x8 and Slot 3 is x4.  I had an Adaptec 1430SA in Slot 2 and an Adaptec 1430Sa in Slot 3.  Slot 1 was empty.
I've been doing some research and trying a few things, but I have not been successful in fixing this issue. I may be wrong, but based on the things I've found online, it seems that the problem could be caused by the way the OS handles USB. 
The moving of these cards to slots 1 and 2 fixed the IPKVM issue.  After the OS loaded the keyboard and mouse now both worked correctly.
I built a server with the mentioned motherboard. I installed Windows Server 2008 R2 Enterprise on this server. 
Last night, in order to free up slot 3 for a sound card, I moved the Adaptec Sata Controllers to slots 1 and 2.
I've found  threads in some forums from people having the same issue as me, but they were not running the same OS. They were either running Linux or FreeBSD. Most of them fixed their problem by selecting the right mouse mode (Linux in their case). There was one other that solved the problem by disabling USB Mass Storage mode. He stated "When I set it to disable USB Mass Storage when no image
I suspect the solution described in the previous paragraph is somehow related to my problem. I've found several threads on the internet with issues describing the same problem, but none of them were with Windows Server 2008 R2. Again, I may be wrong, but it seems like that could be the issue. I just don't know how I go about applying a solution in Windows Server 2008 R2. 
The server is headless. There is no keyboard, mouse, or monitor plugged into it. When I boot up the OS and remote into it, I cannot see a mouse or keyboard listed in the Device Manager. Based on what I've read, it seems that the OS should detect a mouse and a keyboard when connecting remotely via IPMI. 
In any case, I could use your expertise. Maybe I am missing something, or maybe I'm on the right track. 
IPMI is integrated on the motherboard with its own dedicated NIC. I've got that NIC configured with its own IP address. I can remote into it using IPMI, and I can remotely control the server settings before booting the OS ( BIOS, RAID configuration, etc). When the OS boots, I lose the mouse and keyboard. I cannot use the keyboard or mouse when installing the OS either. So the Keyboard and Mouse only work when no OS is loaded. Once the OS loads I lose it - that is my problem. 
I had a very similar issue to the original post.  During the boot of the OS I would lose control of the mouse and keyboard.  The keyboard and mouse would only work when no OS was loaded.  I could get into the BIOS settings and change them using the IPKVM.  After loading the OS and attempting to activate the IPVKM using IPMI View the video would display but the mouse/keyboard would not be available.  In the Windows Server 2008R2 device Manager a USB device would appear as an "unknown USB device".