Now comes to problem.  This answer will never be delivered to you.  Instead it will be delivered to the real 1.2.3.4, who will become very confused.
Today, likely nothing other than the organization not being able to reach portions of the Internet that they overlap. In the past, this type of thing has caused serious issues, including "breaking the Internet" for some or many users (in one case, a single ISP accidentally propagated a default route to the Internet overloading their own network as much of the Internet traffic tried to route through them).
So, if you use a wrong address, you can talk to the Internet, but the Internet will never answer you.
Incidents with BGP have happened in the past, causing traffic to be routed to wrong places. Here's a link to a recent incident: https://hub.packtpub.com/mondays-google-outage-was-a-bgp-route-leak-traffic-redirected-through-nigeria-china-and-russia/
As long as I don't try to the Internet, these two machine can talk to each other without any problems.
Such happenings will almost certainly get noticed and there will likely be some heated discussions and some extra filtering added. 
As stated by many others, nothing prevents anyone from doing so, but in general, this won't have any effect outside of the organization, and will even cause issues internally.
Past incidents like the ones you propose became learning opportunities and resulted in best practices that include protections from this type of misconfiguration. Most often today, providers implement BCP38/RFC2827 to filter traffic to connected organizations to only the IP address they should be advertising.
Now I connect to the Internet. The other answers talk about filters blocking things, but let us ignore that for a moment.
Nothing. Over the years, I have seen both organizations of all sizes, both public and private, do this including a world wide recognized "brand" company. In fact, I have seen this more often in business settings than university settings (largely due to the fact that more universities were involved in the Internet earlier and helped define the standards and best practices used today).
My machine 1.2.3.4 tries to connect to some legitimate address, like 12.34.56.78. Assume that this address exists and is controlled by its proper owner.
The routers look at the To: part and correctly delivers it to 12.34.56.78.  This machine suspects nothing and complies an answer
Internet runs a lot on trust. Things are changing slowly, but in many instances, ISPs just trust other ISPs.
What happens if they try to advertise them to the Internet depends on how sloppy their providers are. If their providers are following best practices then there will be filters in place and the advertisements won't get beyond the hijacker's borders.
Some providers still also implement bogon filtering which when properly maintained helps to prevent traffic from IP space that no valid traffic should be coming from (i.e. private address ranges, unassigned IP space, etc). While the IPv4 bogon list is much smaller today that in the past (i.e. most IPv4 addresses are now assigned), the IPv6 bogon list can be still be quite useful, especially on large providers to limit the scope of IP squatting (i.e. using unassigned IP space).
OTOH if their providers and their providers providers are sloppy then a bogus announcement can go much further resulting in significant disruption to the legitimate owners of the IP space. 
Now, if you're yourself an ISP, and start telling others that you are the one to use to route this IPs (using a routing protocol like BGP), then those IP will "partly" become yours, for a while. Partly, because when the issue is noticed, measures will be taken to stop it. "For a while", well, until measures are taken.