*Note, that if you have a lot of software installed on your machine, then you might need to move some to HDD. In this case you have following factors to consider:
Some remnant files will remain and refuse to be deleted; by this point hopefully they will not be too closely attached, however, so you can run the following commands:
As for my current plan, I know for sure I'm going to have the system itself installed on the SSD and some two-three games I'm currently playing which (after beating them) I'm going to move to my HDD if I suspect I may play them sometime in the future. But what else should you have on the SSD to not create unneccessary bottlenecks? Should the pagefile be on the SSD? Temporary files? Should I keep my Program Files on HDD or SSD? Or maybe just some particular programs should be installed on the SSD? Or maybe it's the best to not clog it up and have there just the system and the games I'm currently playing?
And even though there is no 100% right answer, I have to tell you it is a good question. And I would like to see other users share their experience
I have the same combination except hdd: ssd 120GB and hhd 500GB. I use ssd for operation system and all programs. 120GB is enough for all general programs, not games.
A few things will fail to be deleted (I seem to recall the 'ink' folder in Microsoft Shared being a bit difficult) so you'll probably need to use task manager to kill any running instances of Explorer.exe before running the delete commands.
If you want, try google something like "configure ssd / optimaze ssd", there are a lot of advices which can help you to extend the life of your ssd.
So in a few days I'm going to be building a new PC in which I decided to icorporate an SSD (120GB) + HDD (1TB) combo. Are there any rules of thumb as to how you should divide your data among those two to allow the fastest experience?
What those commands did was establish ownership over the two program files folders on your C:\ drive (provided you're running a 64-bit operating system) so that you can proceed to perform the next steps:
All media/files folders (even "My documents", "My music", "Downloads" etc.) and temp folders move to hhd.
What you just did was establish a directory symbolic link (a junction) that will effectively redirect any requests to C:\Program files to D:\Program Files (the letter path I presume your HDD is taking) on a filesystem level. This way you don't need to change any other settings. When applications install to C:\Program Files, you can let them, confident that they're actually installing to D:\ . It's all very clever.