When we want to transfer the heat from a hot surface (like the heat sink surface, or the IC chip surface) to the surrounding air with the use of airflow, we are creating a forced convection condition. That is, the air stream 'takes' the molecules of air above the hot surface and move them out into external space. 
The trick is good airflow (which is also why some have 2 sets of fans) - if you can seal the rest of the case, and provide a good path for air to be brought in (usually at the front) and blown out (usually at the back) then you get the best cooling for the least amount of air movement. If you can restrict the air intake to a certain area, then you can also put dust filters in place.
IBM and HP did a lot of research on this topic in the 60s and 70s.  Blowing air in cools the hottest part best, but sends that heat to other parts thereby heating them up and lowering the overall MTBF.  Sucking avoids this problem provided the fan is mounted by the hottest parts, but doesn't cool quite as well.
For a scenario, where fan is attached to the hot surface with its back (so that it is sucking the air onto the hot surface from the sides of the heat sink, perpendicular to the fan axis and blowing out the sucked air into external space through its front), the velocity of the air flow near the hot surface will be slower than the velocity of the output stream that is blown away at the front of the fan.
In general case, the effectiveness of such heat transfer mechanism depends on the speed of the air flow that 'takes' the hot molecules and throws them away, because, the more of hot molecules we can remove from the above of surface, the cooler it will be.
We need to analyze the velocity distribution of the air streams that can be generated in different scenarios of fan placement. For that, let's name the fan sides first: the 'back' of the fan is the side where the air is sucked in. And the 'front' of the fan is the side where the air is blown out. Also, let's assume that there is a heat sink attached to the IC.
You can see this in thin 1U rackmount servers, where the fans are tiny and designed to take air in the front and blow it directly out the back over whatever components are carefully positioned in the flow.
Look at the configuration of desktop PC cases - they all have fans that suck air out, and some also have fans that blow air in. 
Moreover, in every similar situation (if you have a stream of fluid that you want to use for cooling of a hot surface), make sure you are directing the fastest part of the stream right onto the hottest spot. That would give the best possible result.
There are usually arrows stamped on the fan casing that shows the direction of blades rotation and the direction of air flowing through the fan when it is turned on. Install the fan such that the air flows directly onto the hot surface.
For a fan that is attached to the hot surface with its front side (so that it is sucking the air through its back, then throws it down directly onto the hot surface and then the air is blown out through the sides of the heat sink), the maximum flow velocity would be right at the hottest spot giving the optimal conditions for the cooling.