And if I should ask community, should I do an action like, for everyone who submits an approved level design (not the xml, but only a sketch), they receive one cent per sold copy of the game?
Basically, you lack the only interesting thing which people actually play platformers for. All these technical stuff you've listed can be done rather quickly compared to the interesting game levels. Levels need a lot of thought, work and polish, also they tend to spawn features when some idea cannot be expressed by existing components. So if you don't have the levels, you don't have the game. 
Unless you already have a community of people waiting to play your game, you're going to have a hard time getting people to design levels for you.  And if your concept is truly original, then people are going to have a hard time designing good levels, because they don't know how your game works.
The best solution (or at least, the one that's been done many, many times before with decent success) is to release your game with a set of levels made by you (or possibly a friend, or a level designer that you hire, if you can afford one), and then release the tools used to make those levels.  If people like your game, then they'll build levels for it, and if you encourage this, you'll have all sorts of people making content for your game with very little effort on your part.  Done properly, this can extend the life of your game and encourage new people to buy it.
Do you have copyrights? Yes. In most countries, you have copyright over anything you create ever as soon as you create it. Of course, this only applies to the code and assets; the game concept is not protected by copyright.
Is it possible to publish my game concept and ask community for level designs? And still keep my game concept save from being copied by others. Do I have copyrights on a game concept for a game which isn't officially released?
If you don't mind these things, I guess it could work in theory, lets consider criteria for the best case: 
The trick to all of this is to have a good set of levels to start with, which will encourage people to buy the game.  One possible idea is to give the game (and level editor) away for free, but make it so that you have to buy the game to play more levels.
Summing up, you're basically going to publish a specialized game engine and ask people to make your game for you in return for a small fee while forbidding them to use this engine for anything but your own idea. Capitalism, ho! I've never seen it's done, considering how hard it would be to make a consistent game out of levels made by many different people. Just remember how nicely levels were themed in "World of Goo" versus list of abrupt challenges in "N". 
Is your game concept safe? It doesn't matter. The true success of a game is in the implementation, not the idea. The only games that get cloned exactly are those which are already successful. Any decent game designer will have a hundred unmade ideas of their own, and no one will be able to implement your concept better than you.
All points considered, it might be best to employ a "level-driven development" (think of possible cool applications of game mechanics, then build levels around them) or find yourself a level designer to do it for you. Also if your concept is good, it will be stolen regardless of what you do. Don't worry about it, real value lies not in a concept but in what you do with it.
I'm developing a 2D physics platformer game, with commercial purposes. Almost everything is finished: