What status do people use? Does "Out of Office" correctly reflect that you're working from home, even though I perceive this to mean that somebody is on vacation? Maybe I'm the only one confused here, but as a company that's never before done telecommuting of any kind, I'm in the dark about standard practices.
As I grew to understand it, "out of office" implies that you are assumed to be unable to access office-related material from where you are at that moment.
As we begin to telecommute, I'll be available by phone for meetings, but not in person - any meeting can have a conference bridge, but some meetings just need to be in person. I'd like to send the right message about my status - people can schedule meetings with me on my telecommute days, but they should expect me to be on a conference bridge when they do.
As of Office 2016, possibly 2013, there is a "Working elsewhere" status for appointments.  This is not an option in Office 2010 or earlier.  Setting this status and a descriptive subject line would be appropriate.
Thanks for the insight! Though this isn't a technical question directly, I'm hoping it's still applicable to the group and constructive - if it's not, please close it and accept my apology.
I realize this question has been asked quite some time ago - I still hope you or whoever stumbles upon it may find it useful.
Our office (pretty large - about 200 people) has recently started part-time telecommuting. It's only one day/week now, but it's already raised some questions about availability, so I wanted to see how the users here, some of whom I'm sure telecommute to a corporate job, how they set their out of office status.
People may call you, but whether you're in a client meeting or on holiday, you won't be able to look up information because you won't have it at hand. This implies that you won't be reachable to make any informed (i.e. substantiated by the office-material available to you) decisions over the phone - it'll usually only help to ask about scheduling-related matters, if a calendar is at hand (or things like "can I reach you regarding X today or could you call me back when you can?").
Telecommuting would not qualify as "out of office", if you have access to your work-related material and are available for video/voice (conference-)calls - this does qualify you to do all regular work as if you were in office (if everything is set up to allow for this).