So I thought, what about making the accuracy of your assessment part of the whole game. Like the trainer has stats which determine the accuracy of what you see as your champions stats. At first you might only be able to judge strength, at least perhaps until you train a champion that is, say, highly intelligent so raising it allows you to judge Intelligence as a value.
If a player can neither see nor influence a stat then what is the point of making it variable? As I see it you get the full effect of the downside, but none of the upsides.
The downside of variable stats is that you need to design the game to be enjoyable no matter how the stats have developed. This can be quite hard as tuning a fight to the desirable difficulty for a player with one stat set will often make it either too hard or too easy for a player with a different stat set.
The problem I foresee is having random stats. While it sounds good on paper, it can yield very different results. Gamers have different play styles and if you force them out of what they are comfortable with, they can get frustrated. They may even resort to restarting the game multiple times when they discover their character isn't how they want it to be.
If the player just stops working that is going to be very frustrating to the player. You need to communicate the mana levels somehow. You can do this by the character visibly changing or complaining more vehemently as the mana levels decrease.
Hidden stats can be fun if done correctly. It sounds like you are going in an interesting and unique direction which can land you in a very good place.
That way you can still have hidden stats but the player still has some control over how the character grows.
So, while I think that it could be used in some really cool ways in your poke-champion style RPG, my general view on the matter would be that if you are making an RPG, include the stats. If you feel the numbers detract from the experience and want to make the character's status apparent through how he looks or how the control changes YOU ARE MOVING AWAY FROM THE TRADITIONAL RPG, which is fine however if you are making a real RPG which utilizes a stats system, you should at least give the player a screen where he is given the numerical values for his abilities and attributes. As the guy above me said (paraphrased) how exactly does your game BENEFIT from what you want to do differently- it is not enough to want to hide the stats simply because it would be cool to hide the stats. Also, it was said that giving people more information allows them to make more informed decisions... giving them TOO MUCH information- either by drowning them in too much data or by giving them unintentionally misleading or unclear data, is just as bad. One must strike a narrow balance, which is why the traditional style is so commonly used-  it manages to strike that balance and people are already familiar with it. 
This too has to be communicated or it is going to be really hard for the player to notice. Say if a character has a propensity for archery that should be built into their back story or they should volunteer or show enthusiasm for tasks they are talented at. So I think just a random talent set is a bad idea unless you can communicate the talents in some other way than observation or the player's trial and error.
With regards to your "pokemoon-esque" game idea- having your OWN champions' stats be hidden from the player at first seemed a BAD idea, or rather one that I didn't like at first... however, I HAVE always felt that games which were attempting to be as "realistic" as possible would ultimately not even want to use stats, per se. If your pokemon game were "real life", one would not have the convenience of having a numerical value for, say "strength" but rather one would have to judge its strength based upon one's own knowledge and familiarity with the thing. Perhaps someone who is an experienced trainer can end up with a result quite similar to a numerical value, but a novice surely wouldn't.
Because you are able to judge it doesn't mean that you are able to judge it well, or even accurately so you would perhaps have a stat which corresponds to the likelihood of the judgement being inaccurate, as well as one for the severity of the inaccuracy.
I think there is one very important aspect you have to deliver on and if you can then this is a perfectly good idea. And that is communication. The problem with abstracting over the numbers is that the difference may be very difficult or observe due to the manifesting over long periods of time or being very subtle. The number are an obvious if very crude way to communicative to the user exactly what is happening. 
Maybe instead of random stats, you have them answer a quiz or perform actions on a vanilla character and base stats on the answers the player chooses or the actions they perform.
The point of having variable stats in the first place is first and foremost that the player can increase those stats. It is a simple but effective skinner box technique. Second it gives the player some customization options, choosing what skill to level up feels like making an important decision, and that is good.
I enjoy when there is an entirely new way of doing things with regards to the battle system in an RPG; however while I do enjoy the process of learning a well-designed, unfamiliar system I always end up feeling like I've finally got the hang of it right in time for the last battle... so, it's a balance. Hope this helped :) 