Just realized that this is mostly the same solution offered by Chris above...  Just a slightly different way to go about the same result.
Now when you launch Remote Desktop Connection using this file, everything will be rendered at 100% scaling but bitmap-scaled up to your system's DPI scaling.  It works with full screen as well.  The only problem is, the mouse cursor shows up tiny.  (This also happened with mRemoteNG when I tried it.)
Then, always use mstsc2.exe when you want to make a RDP connection to a non-HiDPI-aware remote host.
It is necessary to do this with a copy of mstsc.exe because Microsoft will not allow you to change compatibility settings for the copy at the default location.
If you go with this solution, you can script the commands above to run at startup so that you will get updated versions of the remote desktop client as Microsoft ships them out.  It does not clobber the high DPI scaling change.
Cheesy solution, but works for me.  This allows you to run a remote session at 100% DPI if your local session is higher than 100% DPI, and the display will be scaled accordingly, if your host is Windows 10.
The fix is to update to Windows 7 SP1 (or Server 2008R2 on the server side) and make sure that you have the following patch installed: https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/kb/2923545 - then you will have DPI remoting (so not everything will be tiny). 
Now, right-click on the new mstsc.exe file and select Properties.  The "Compatibility" tab is present.  Go to this tab, click "Change high DPI settings" and then "Override high DPI scaling behavior", with "System" performing the scaling.
Windows 7 (or Server 2008) does not support RDP protocol version 8 which introduces DPI remoting (which is what the article you referenced talks about). This results in the behavior that you are seeing - you can have either full screen or zoom, but not together :(
I had the same problem when RDP'ing from my Surface Book to legacy Windows 7 and Server 2012 clients: The RDP window is tiny and unsuable.
You can disable HiDPI-awareness for mstsc.exe (the Remote Desktop Client), which gives you the correct scaling when doing an RDP connection from a client with a HiDPI display to a remote host that doesn't support HiDPI.
After you have DPI remoting, if you connect to an existing session (log in as someone who was already logged in), you might run into issues with the Windows UI and applications still have the old DPI settings. These issues have been mostly addressed in Windows 10 (UI elements now scale with DPI settings change). The best remoting experience is Windows 10 to Windows 10.
Inside of the RDP session right click on the desktop and choose "Screen Resolution". Click Identify and close out. It'll tell you the you have to restart to change settings - don't restart! Just log off the RDP session and log back in, your remote desktop should fill the screen now.