As noted load average is related to the number of waiting processes in the run queue.  If each of those processes has very little work to do and frees the processor quickly you can handle much larger load averages than the common 1 per CPU rule of thumb.  
System metrics (load, CPU, I/O) are often the only indicators most people have of the performance of their system - however actual transactional performance is something quite different. These metrics can provide guidance on how performance is constrained, but really its a lot more useful to look at how long transactions actually take.
Does that mean you are seeing problems with the mail queue not clearing down? Or is it the length of time the script takes to execute? Or are you inferring that tere is a problem based on the high load?
If you're already using a smart relay, then do check its configured correctly - IME, with a sendmail based setup, php mail() calls block for a long time (but somehow messages still get delivered?) if the MTA can't connect to the smart host.
2) Disable logging to maillog. On a high volume mailing list the entry is added to maillog on every email that goes out as well as on every bounce email received back. Writing to maillog is very resource intensive because it involves disk writes. By simply disabling maillog you can decrease your system load by "a lot", sometimes by as much as 50%
Personally, I'm not a big fan of exim - I've had much better experiences with sendmail and postfix, although I admit that its been several years since I did any serious testing on MTAs. Certainly you are getting into the ballpark where you need to be a lot more sophisticated about email processing.
Mail is pretty much the perfect example of this, each process needs CPU to send a message but very, very little.  I've seen mail systems running sendmail at a load average in the 25 to 35 range, and the system is still interactive and working fine.
Conclusion: monitor you bounces and keep your list clean - marked bouncning accounts and don't send mails to them anymore.
As far as processing emails is concerned, there are 2 things you can do to decrease the load: 1) make sure you have a script that processes the bounced emails so that you can mark an email address as 'bouncing' and not send to that address anymore. The usual bounce rate for a large email list, even an opt-in one is about 20%. The bounces really bugging down the server because not only your server has to send out emails that people don't see, it also has to receive and process the bounced emails.
high load is the mean size of run queue - e.g. processes which want to be runned on cpu. Looks like your script does a lot of cpu work. So, you must profile it and post here its sources. How do you send letters?
I'm guessing that the MTA is configured to send mail directly to their recipients. If you do have performance problems then you might consider using a smart relay to offload messages from your server faster. But try switching Exim to queue only to see if this resolves the load (and more importantly any performance) problem first. Also, have a look at your DNS caching and see if it could be improved. 
I don't know what email server you using, but on Linux you would usually look in the /etc/syslog.conf
A lot of email providers now implement throttling as a method of spam blocking - while sorting the email list by domain would help reduce DNS lookups, you might end up having problems with remote systems throttling or blocking mail. Do make sure that you're doing everything practical to avoid looking like a spammer (e.g. SPF, DKIM) - IIRC Exim does not directly support milters - there are a lot of useful milters available - notably milter-limit.
Rather than switch off the logging, it might be a good idea to temporarily add forwarding for the root account to see exactly what all those emails which aren't getting delivered are about.
First of all, your load is not all that high. The load of 8 on 2 CPU means a load of 4 per CPU. Also modern CPU are usualy dual core, so it's like 2 CPU's in one, so the load is really more like 2 per CPU.
As mfarver says, high load is not uncommon on email systems, particularly with the increasing number of synchronous checking done by mailservers to avoid spam.
Once more thing: the bounced emails usually come back to the root account. It's very common for a system to reach the mailbox limit for the root account, which is usually 100MB. Once the limit is reached you are starting another problem where you cannot even accept bounced emails, so you system may be sending its own bounce messages adding even more load.