Nope. Non-techies don't learn computer stuff as easy as us. You can spend a few hours teaching them the basics of safe computer usage, or about 5 weeks of phone calls teaching then Linux, then another 5 weeks of phonecalls teaching them Windows again if hey need it for a job.
It could come over as patronising or you being smug. It certainly happened for Mac users in the past. There may be very good reasons why they can't switch from Windows - you just don't know.
I've been using Windows exclusively for years and have not had any virus problems since Windows XP RTM (nor have I installed any anti-virus software). Should I pitch Windows to virus victims?
My opinion is that it is a good suggestion depending on your target audience. Younger generations will be able to easily pick up on the basics as most younger people tend to be "web-centric". They could care less the OS as long as they can access their web apps. In their case they would be able to pick up on the nuances of browsing and downloading pics and videos with ease. The benefit here is that though it is till security through obscurity, the attack vector is not Linux alone but a combination of linux and the browser which are constantly competing to to claim security superiority (the browsers). They are less likely to get infected this way even if they do something stupid (not impossible though). The older your target audience gets thought the harder the challenge. not because they are stupid though. It is generally because of what their expectations are in a computer. they have most likely spent their entire computing lives on windows releases and they have a different level of expectations in the form of usability and support. They can pick it up but they will be a little more finicky about it though since linux tends to be a support it yourself proposition. I use both windows and linux at work and at home. I prefer linux for most everything but Windows does still have the edge in some areas. If you feel that strongly about your OS/Distro choice, you should create a USB Stick loaded with your distro that runs and provide it to those friends with instructions on how to boot to it. If they like it they will come back for more help from you. if they do not, they will stick with what they know and will continue to have their problems until you or someone else educates them on how to properly use their OS of choice. An old saying goes that you are what you eat; the same applies to computers,  if you feed your computer garbage is will become that regardless of your OS choice.