Always remember that benchmarks are not real-world load. Even if a CPU performs nicely in benchmarks, your mileage with your components a certain kind of application set will vary. As an eye-opener, look at the benchmark results for the X5675 and the X5690 CPUs within the CPUMark graph - both are same generation chips with the clock speed being the only difference - the X5690 is running about 12% faster. And yet, it scores lower than the X5675 in the benchmark chart - how's that?
The chart you linked to does not show the breakdowns as to how each individual CPU did in the listed tests, it only shows some conglomerated score with no explanation as to weighting of the individual tests.  In that list I see CD/DVD (whatever that means) and 3d graphics. None of that matters for a server. as syneticon-dj pointed out the tests you're looking at are not representative of real world server results.
Aside from that, desktop CPUs are often able to outperform server-scoped Xeons in narrow benchmarks. Desktop CPUs might be clocked faster - they do not need the reliability as much and have less baggage. Xeon's architectural advantages like the ability to control large amounts of RAM, using NUMA or a large number of cores are typically left unconsidered.
TL:DR version: the benchmarks you found show that are i7 makes a great video game CPU. Are you building a server or a video game computer?
I wouldn't put too much stock in those benchmark scores.  It only shows one aspect of performance on the system - an artificial workload designed to stress one aspect of the system.  The performance of other components in the machine, such as storage controllers, disk drives, memory, network adapters, and chipset and their effect on the intended workload on the server aren't accurately reflected by a CPUMark score.
You also have to realize that the desktop and server chips may be tuned for different workloads.  That i7 may be geared for more powerful and processor intensive desktop applications like gaming while the Xeon chip may be geared towards more memory-intensive applications like database operations and virtualization.
To your question on which processor to get, you haven't described the workload for your server besides being a webserver.  So without more information on what type of web application you'll be hosting and whether or not a database will be on the box, its hard to respond with a good answer.
A server is the sum of its parts, and the best combination of parts are picked to both maximize performance and stand up to the wear-and-tear of 24x7x365 operation.  So while the i7 might have more "raw power" in testing situations, running it non-stop serving a workload may cause the chip to fail sooner