Nokia E5-00 - Memory card security(Though it is for a different model, I hope it also applies for your phone too.)
If I recall correctly, if you password protect a Memory Card in those phones, pc does not recognise them. But, if you put the Card in another phone which support Memory card password protection, then you can access the memory card, but only after entering the password.
The "Secure Digital" standard on SD cards has a "password lock" feature that makes it possible for a device to basically lock a card to that device - the device can create a random internal password, store it locally, and then use it to unlock a card.
If you can't do both of them (how sad, isn't it), put it in another phone that supports password protection and format the memorycard.
If you read the referenced article, some old Nokia Symbian phones have the ability to clear out a locked SD card.  If you ever clear it, as long as you don't put it back in the original phone, you should be able to use it again.
Try a Linux computer or another machine... I remember that Symbian phones used to have an option to reformat the SD card so you might want to look for that option in the settings menu...
Windows Phone 7 devices did use these features - they would protect any card found because the way Windows CE (the basis of Windows Phone 7) works, all storage is unified into one pool - whether from internal flash or SD card.  So this was done to discourage removing the card.  Reference
Most PC hardware it seems does not implement these SD commands.  Some phones do, and the Nokia XpressMusic 5800 phone may be one of them.  
If you remember the password, you may put it in another phone which support the option, enter the password, then remove password protection from your card. Thereafter you can access it from your pc. On the other hand, if you do not remember the passwor, put the memory card to the phone where it works, remove the password (I remember that the option is in the gallery->click option on memorycard.).
If a password lock has been put on an SD card, it will look like nothing is there when you place it in another card reader that doesn't support the SD commands needed.