It’s almost easier to explain that line in terms of what it DOESN’T do.  It doesn’t dispute the speaker’s claim, because you don’t want to go down the rathole of arguing about whether or not the point was right at the time.  You could spend the entire day arguing about why USB has the word Universal as part of the name, but that’s beside the point.  You need to get to the right solution as fast as possible, and sometimes that just means ignoring something that’s wrong.
It doesn’t divide you against the other guy.  I try to use the word “we” whenever I use this line, because I want to take the other guy along with me on the journey to fix this problem.
It doesn’t chastise the other guy for not keeping up with the latest tips and tricks.  It’s hard enough to just do our jobs, let alone keep up with blogs and training, and real life interferes.  It lets the other person save face.
Just because you say "it is bad to not use foreign keys" doesn't mean all that much.  So you heard somebody else say it once.  But... if you have a repro showing why it's bad and how to correct it, now you are bringing something to the table.  And by spelling it out, any reasonable person would have a hard time not agreeing, whether your have 6 months of experience under your belt, or whether you're an MCM.  Take a look at all of the great professionals in our line of work, and look at their blog posts.  They don't just say "this is this way because it is the best".  They almost always show with an example what they are talking about to really paint the picture.  That is most effective.  Use examples.
All of those items you listed can be demo'd quite easily.  Spend a little extra time and show in a test/isolated environment the way they are doing it now, and why that is a problem.  Be scientific.  Show the pitfalls, whether it's data purity or performance.  Then show your way, and using the same "test" show why your way prevents issues or maximizes good things.
Here's the line I like to use - it preserves everyone's dignity and lets everyone escape without finger-pointing:
We are lucky that we are in a profession where facts are quite attainable.  That doesn't mean be abrasive or unprofessional.  At the end of the day we are all human.  And at some point you will be wrong as well, so treat the situation and issues as you'd like your discrepancies to be treated.  That's the "soft" side of our jobs.
That means nothing to me.  I'd rather work with a 6-month DBA that has the thirst for knowledge and engineering approach to databases, then an "experienced" person that thinks they have it all figured out.