Can anyone here tell me if this is possible, or point me to good resources that explain our options?
http://www.google.com/support/enterprise/static/gapps/docs/admin/en/gapps_pilot/intgr_data_email_lotus_mig.html#1100527
I have been assigned to research the possibility of routing our email to Google Apps while maintaining LAN functions on the SBS. I haven't worked with Microsoft products for several years now, so do not know how SBS is structured. 
Not to push another product, it's just the one I'm familiar with but you may look into Cloud Coexistence with Office 365.  This may give you the performance on-site as well as easy accessibility with offsite users.  Then again, you could just go to Office 365 all together to maintain an Exchange like experience, when we compared it to Google Apps and other providers the integration you get with Outlook and Exchange was much better than the other offerings.
Recently, an in-house Microsoft Small Business Server 2011 was installed where I work. Unfortunately, our buildings have a bad electrical power supply and we suffer frequent outages. We have a large percentage of staff working off-site. Now when the power goes off here, everyone everywhere loses email functionality.
To me it always came down to how invested we already were with Microsoft products versus making a complete switch to another provider.  Our users had grown accustomed to Exchange features which made it really hard to look at Google Apps.  That being said, in either direction you should be able to move a lot of the functions offsite bit by bit to either provider, there's just a good amount of work for whoever gets handed that task.
How long are these outages? get a decent UPS? Might be cheaper over a 3 year period than continuously subscribing to gmails / office 365 prices! (dependent on the amount of users of course)  
It should be pretty straight forward on that.  Also, you'll need to update your MX record to reflect google apps and decommission the Exchange part of the SBS.