where eth0 has ip addr 192.168.1.3. TCP connections do not work too well; I just get connection reset by peer messages. I know the problem is in the two routes as if I remove one, everything works smoothly. 
Having two NICs will just do round-robin per NIC and not per route, keeping each TCP connection on the same NIC.
Maybe you'd just prefer to profile your network usage based on source and add some policy based routing (aka source routing) to statically balance service among your available links.
Most of the web applications out there will keep a valid session as long as you've got a valid cookie, however banking usually ties that also to the source IP and, you probably know this already, HTTP uses several TCP connections in order to fetch all the resources on a website. As soon as one of those TCP connections is sent from a different NIC (i.e. different ADSL provider hence different source IP) your cookie will be rendered invalid and the banking session finished.
You're on the right track. You need two NICs, mainly because your Linux firewall is sending outbound packets in a round-robin fashion when it comes to select a route as they both have the same metric.
I have added two default routes with weight 1 for load balancing.  Everything works fine from the firewall to the internet.  However, the FW needs to do masquerading as well. From hosts in internal LANs, ping to outside world works fine. I have just added 
I am trying to set up a Linux firewall (ubuntu 14.04) to use two bonded ADSL lines for load balancing purposes.  I found by searching the forum link to this: http://lartc.org/howto/lartc.rpdb.multiple-links.html but it does not work in my case, as I do not have two physical interfaces to separate the ADSL connections.
I assume the problem is in masquerading and things go wrong when tcp streams get routed different routes. Can I fix this somehow or do I need another NIC to follow the instructions I found?
If you could somehow implement some affinity (user UA going to site SA use link LA) you won't have this issue and as long as you expire this entries in a reasonable time you wouldn't have RAM issues on your Linux firewall neither.