If you have Enterprise edition you can use database snapshots which is a very quick process. Otherwise, you can create TSQL scripts to backup and restore your DB and schedule these scripts in the SQL agent. 
Would you set this up under the Replication services or an SSIS job? What are the advantages and disadvantages of each?
I would like to duplicate a database, on the same server, and keep it up to date either by running a scheduled service once a day or having SQL Server 2008 take care of this internally.
We don't need to transform data, just copy from DatabaseA to DatabaseB (but never from DatabaseB to DatabaseA).
I would just backup/restore. This accomplishes the same thing, validates your recovery story, and will easily handle schema/object changes as well - without really putting any undue strain on the existing database (you're already backing it up, right?).  If it were on a different server (or if you ever split them up), I might suggest log shipping as opposed to mirroring or replication, that way you can fiddle with how long between log backups, how long to delay restores, what kind of maintenance window to use, etc. Of course even on a different server a very simple backup/restore will work fine.
If it's on a different machine any process that simulates log shipping or even plain restore of the last backup file would suffice. I agree with Stan that replication or any SSIS process would be an overkill for your situation. Replication has too many burdens for being used in this simple task and SSIS would just be an over complication.
If it's on the same machine and instance, I'd go with snapshots. There's mainly no maintenance included, only need take care of the space on the drive you've set it, because if it's a highly used database it will grow pretty fast.
The live database is updated daily with new events and we want to ensure that the staging environment resembles the live environment as much as possible.
The reason I am doing is so I can have a staging application which read and writes to a staging database, but then every night any new data from the live database is pulled in to the staging database.