One culprit that I've seen is shortcuts that point to network drives; these can cause Explorer to pause or lock up for a few seconds while it tries to resolve those network drives so that it can load icons for the shortcuts.
I've decided to live with the problem - as I'd rather have some antivirus protection and AVG is otherwise quite reasonable for the price. 
This is AVG's resident shield - If you put task manager on your screen and order it by "CPU Load" you'll noticed that when you get the problem - AVG will go up in CPU use. Disable AVG's resident scanner and it will go away.
What's happening is that XP is reading through all the Start Menu folders and entries.   Some amount of rearranging (grouping similar folders together in a parent folder - I have ones for "Utilities", "Multimedia", "Applications", etc) can speed things up.  However, if you're really loaded with applications and short on memory, nothing short of uninstalling some of that stuff will help.
Based on what you've given us I'd suggest taking this tack on troubleshooting the issue: Bring up the Task Manager, switch to the Processes tab, and then sort it by CPU. Keep an eye out on what processes are using the most CPU time and then click on your Start button and head up to All Programs.  I run AVG on one of my older XP boxes and I've noticed AVG's resident scanner has a tendency to chew up a HUGE amount of CPU cycles whenever I open a folder on that box, resulting in a lag of several seconds before the file names start appearing and icons populate properly.  You may be running into the same thing on your PC.
On a related note, if you've copied shortcuts from another computer (such as via a roaming profile), and the shortcuts' destinations don't exist on your computer, then Windows may automatically try to access the original computer over the network to update the shortcuts to point to that original computer's hard drive.  (For example, a shortcut pointing to c:\MyComputerSpecificApp.exe will be updated to point to \MySpecificComputer\c$\MyComputerSpecificApp.exe.  This is going from memory; it's been a while since I've dealt with this behavior.)  I believe that this is part of the behavior that Raymond Chen is describing here.
It doesn't sound like you're doing any network shortcuts or profile roaming, so I doubt this is your problem, but these things are simple enough to check.