Now I'm using a Creative X-Fi Xtreme Music instead of the onboard Realtek, which doesn't have this feature in the drivers.
Of course, you can just do this in software, too. I bet your X-Fi has at least an equalizer built into it's software.
When I played video files where the sound was encoded for 5.1 speakers, the voices were too low and other effects were way too loud. The Realtek card had a feature called "loudness equalization" which took care of this problem.
To fix this, you can try to put the soundcard into stereo mode (drivers and operating system usually have an option for that). This will tell the audio stack—possibly including the media player—that the sound will be played using stereo speakers. This might trigger downmixing which properly mixes in the rear, center and subwoofer channels in the front left+right channels.
The problem is not about normalization, but most likely of missing downmixing functionallity in your audio stack. In theory, at the point where the 5.1 signal is converted to a stereo signal, some downmixing has to happen, otherwise it is likely that you are missing the important Center channel, where most of the speech is.
The question is now, how do I normalize the sound with the X-Fi? I want to use Media Player Home Cinema as a player, but the normalize feature there seems to have no effect. Is there something I can do normalize sound on the hardware end?
Maybe you could solve the issue using a traditional (Hard- or Software) Equalizer. Speech usually has different spectrum than other sounds have - so you'd want to play with volume levels for different frequencies. However, human voice can go from 80Hz to 12kHz, making it a cumbersome task trying to find the one ideal setting.
I'm having a a problem with my audio setup. I've used to connect my external speakers (stereo setup consisting of two speakers) to a USB DAC which was connected to the onboard soundcard (Realtek) of my computer. 
It is also likely that your media player has an option to enable “headphone surround” effects, which should essentially do the same (VLC has an option for that, for example).