From another site I learned that to start word in safe mode, that is word while pressing the control key (and saying yes when prompted) allowed save anew. And also that macros could be a problem, to be dealt with in Word itself, file / options / addins
Note that Foxit Reader is an excellent substitute for Acrobat Reader on Linux (although there is an Adobe Reader there, too).  They make some premium PDF software; and by and large the Foxit Reader works great for me.  I am especially fond of the free Foxit PDF print device you get when you install Foxit Reader - which is my primary reason for installing it.  That being said, I have no need of a PDF COM addin in Word; and if I did, I could use an Adobe one, presumably.  Simply disabling the addin neatly solved my problems; not that Foxit Reader is bad software for the most part.
According to me when you make a MS word document then don’t save direct to the file. Firstly you have to go in file then then go to info after that there are to option given but you have to choose only one that is recover unsaved document.
After that MS Word open the location where a copy of draft resides. It just a matter of selecting a draft.
Now opening it up as a fresh MS Word document and then saving it properly as a save as button on the business bar at the top of the document. Copies of unsaved document are kept for four days then they are automatically deleted. 
Ok, so I tried Ctrl-Opening Word and choosing Safe Mode, and it could Save As; whereas before, I didn't get a dialog for Save As, when simply creating a new doc, typing a few letters, and trying to Save As.  Going into "file / options / addins", as suggested by Igor, and disabling all the addins (two active) in the "COM Addins" category, got things working when I restarted it without Safe Mode.  One of the suspects was a MSO OneNote addin, and the other was a Foxit Reader plugin.  I tried re-enabling the other one; and disabling the Foxit plugin.  That did it.  I don't know why the Foxit Reader addin suddenly started making it impossible to save a file; but it certainly did.  I didn't have automatic updates on either, so there was no recent Windows or MSO update, nor recent update of Foxit reader either, for that matter.
When you want to open a document then you can also use Open & Repair feature for trubleshooting document that might got corrupted or damaged.