Desktop installed antivirus software such as microsoft security essentials seems incapable of stopping these virus.
I'll be the first to say I'm not happy with our Sonicwalls. But I've been pleasantly surprised with the GAV portion.  Does it work as your only AV solution?  Absolutely not.  But it's done a pretty good job at recognizing the Blackhole exploit kit websites that are at the end of someone clicking links in a phishing E-Mail.  I can usually tell when some new batch of spam made it through the mail filters, because a handful of people start clicking, and triggering the GAV block.  I'd definitely recommend GAV via UTM (Even if it's Sonicwall) as part of a layered defense.  The other layer?  Getting a better client Antivirus on your machines.
Would a gateway antivirus firewall like sonicwall with the appropriate antivirus subscription service help at all in these situations?
There is no use in gateway solutions if you don't have good endpoint defenses. Microsoft Essentials is not a full-fledged endpoint security solution. It can't handle some of viruses because lacks sophisticated security components, needed to catch them. If you don't want your users to run into such problems again, consider bying an industry standard endpoint software by either McAffee, Kaspersky or ESET.
Now, I KNOW my users haven't gotten smart over the last 21 days and stopped clicking on shiz that they shouldn't. The sonicwall just isn't catching hardly anything at all.
I think SonicWalls are awesome devices. We have quite a few NSA3500's around our offices and datacenters and I love them.
We have users who frequently get virus/spyware such as fake antivirus spyware on their win7 machines. They have admin access to their machines, and that's not going to change.
So if you're looking to get one simply for the AV, take the word of a SonicWall enthusiast: No, do not get one.
In the statistics for our main office 3500, it shows that over the last 21 days it has blocked 4 Viruses (Virii?). They were labeled...