A Sub-Constant Error-Probability Low-Degree Test, and a Sub-Constant Error-Probability PCP Characterization of NP,
Low degree testing theorems were motivated by PCP applications, but are interesting algebraic theorems. The principle: An $n$-variate function over a finite field $F$ that, on average over the lines in $F^n$, is close in Hamming distance to a low degree polynomial on the line, is close in Hamming distance to a low degree polynomial on the entire $F^n$.
Moser's constructive proof of the Lovasz Local Lemma uses computer science ideas, gives a new proof of Lovasz Local lemma, and solves a problem that people have been thinking about for quite some time.
The principle: A low degree function, in which each of the variables has small influence, behaves almost the same, no matter if the inputs are independent random variables, or (corresponding) Gaussian random variables. This is a generalization of the central limit theorem; there the function is the average of the variables.
The Zig-Zag expander construction was used for constructing various interesting examples of groups with certain unexpected properties, see Meshulam-Wigderson , Rozenman-Shalev-Wigderson. The construction itself is very interesting from a pure math viewpoint, since it used completely different tools (motivated by the CS viewpoint of dealing with entropy) to build expanders than previous constructions. (However perhaps the most celebrated application is inside TCS- Reingold's logspace algorithm for undirected connectivity .)
Closeness in Hamming distance to a low degree polynomial in a certain space means that the function identifies with a low degree polynomial on some non-negligible fraction of the space.
Invariance principles were motivated from hardness of approximation, but are useful analytic theorems.
Although I am biased, I think it's fair to say that various ideas from TCS have contributed to progress on the inverse conjecture for the Gowers norm, see e.g. the paper by Green and Tao.