If you have a problem with how a character looks or whether something is visible, you talk to an artist. The artist may in turn direct you to a programmer if it's a rendering issue, but your first stop is the artist.
To do any work for a game, it would be helpful to know a little about Game Design. A Character Designer would benefit from understanding how the atheistics of the games effect game-play. For example, you don't want the player to confuse Goombas for One-Ups.
A game designer designs games. More specifically, they design the rules of the game, and how the player interacts with the game. They design the way Mario's physics work, they design the rules of jumping on Goomba's heads, and they design the levels in such a way that the player is forced to learn about Goomba-head-jumping-physics.
That doesn't mean that you can't have more than one role in creating a game, and at the same time each role influences every other role significantly. At any rate, you are a game developer, as are programmers, testers, sound engineers, etc.
If the game crashes, you go directly to the lead programmer (or more likely submit a bug report which goes to the lead programmer). The lead programmer will then figure out where that bug came from and forward it off to the appropriate programmer who can fix it.
If you have a problem with how the game feels in some way, your first stop is a game designer. That person can then assess the problem and perhaps direct you to the AI designer (who may direct you to the AI programmer) or wherever. It may even require an art fix/modification. But ultimately, it's a game designer problem and the game designer is the one who comes up with the solution.
Game designers need to consult with others in order to solve game design problems. They need to be able to work with programmers to make the AI do what they need. They need to be able to work with scripters who put which challenges in which locations. They need to be able to work with artists so that the graphics don't get in the way of the gameplay and fulfill the overall vision.
A game's designer has the ultimate responsibility for how the gameplay is designed and behaves. This can include elements of art, sound, programming, scripting, etc. But this does not mean that artists, sound people, programmers and scripters are game designers.
When you're talking about a titled role, what you're talking about is the answer to this question: If I have a problem with/concern about X, who do I talk to in order to get it fixed?
I am a person who desires a job in the artwork development of a video game, but the exact term for the general career often confuses me. What I want to do is Character Design, but what general career does it fall under in terms of video games? Is the overall concept Game Design, or is it just Illustration? I get confused that Game Design is just creating the ENTIRE game from the top of your head and not just a specific area of the development, like the art. Am I wrong? Does Game Design work for both the idea and the artwork, and can the term be separated between the two? A helpful answer would be much appreciated. 
When I hear game designer, I think of somebody who thinks up game mechanics, freedoms and constraints, level designs, balance etc. The may well have no part in actually programming the game. What you are is a game artist.