And it's working. I compiled proftpd from source (reason below), installed and configured it and it seems to work just as it should. I don't need help getting proftpd to run properly.
If there is anything I could improve or if my question rather belongs to unix and linux stackexchange, just let me know. I chose superuser over serverfault to ask this question because it's about a server environment at home.
So there is still something about the usage of virtualhosts, global and server context section I don't understand properly and that's why I came up with the questions above.
I thought the overall process was the following: Whenever a client connects to the server, the server checks whether there is a virtualhost corresponding to the address the client connected to. If not the server context section gets 
I first thought I should just make two virtualhost sections, one for LAN and one for external access and disable
As it turns out, I wasn't right about some information I provided. I'm going to mark this question as answered to avoid people spending time on answering it. A simple edit won't help as I don't know when I will have time to recheck my proftpd setup. I will however clear up whatever caused the incorrect description I provided, revise my question and post it again in some time. 
I followed multiple guides and searched the forum for similar questions. The server is working, I just don't really understand why it is now and why it didn't before.
sections. So I'm quite unsure whether I'm using the 3 possible sections as I'm supposed to. Do I need to use the server context section to have some kind of default config? This could be done with the DefaultServer directive according to the documentation.
the server context section by setting Port 0. But then there are directives I can't use inside the virtualhost
I couldn't get the server to run just by reading the proftpd documentation though and I had to keep tinkering with the configuration file until everything worked out just fine.
Basically all I want to do is run a proftp server on a local machine at home and make this server reachable from both the internet and my LAN.
For example I can not put directives like UseIPv6 or MaxInstances into a virtualhost or the global section but putting it in the server context works just fine. 
I read about configuring proftpd behind a router and the meaning of virtualhosts, global and server context section:
chosen (except the DefaultServer directive is used to prevent this). So I thought the server context section and a virtualhost section are equally "powerful". But that can't be the case as there are directives which work only in one of the sections. 
This is quite a long text. I tried to shorten it, be precise, avoid unnecessary but provide enough information.
What is the difference between the server context and a virtualhost section in the proftpd configuration file? In the sense of what can I do with the former I can't do with the latter. 