At this point its very important to just "state the facts".  I'm not saying YOU did it... I'm saying that YOUR PC issued a deleteFolder command at exactly 4:47pm.  So, whoever was sitting at your desk at 4:47pm did it.
If your logs are showing the mail was delivered to the SERVER then I think the only step beyond that (if you choose to do so) is to look in the user's mailbox, etc.
Their response... "Well I don't know if I was FOR SURE sitting at my PC between 4:45pm and 5:00pm... someone could have come along and deleted it!"
Just a thought, do you have anti-virus on email that could have deleted/moved it without their knowledge?  Usually there is a notification, but hey maybe?
I recently had a case where a user "stored" emails in their "Trash" folder (don't ask why) and then lost over 600 of their "stored" emails when the trash folder was deleted.  They INSISTED someone logged into their email account and emptied the trash.
We had one user complaining about this and what we found was that she had been creating Rules everytime she wanted to archive a particular mail.  So instead of right clicking a mail choosing Move then selecting the folder in their achieve they were choose, Rules and always move messages from this sender then selecting the folder in their archive.  So as soon as mails were getting delivered they were then being moved to archive folders.  She had loads and loads of rules called Accounts, Accounts (1), Accounts (2) etc etc.
She might have accidentally checked the "Work offline" option.  It might be that she never actually got the message all weekend.
Aside from the obvious (DON'T save things in your TRASH folder) I was able to prove it was NOT conspiracy by grabbing screen shots and the proxy log for that computer.  The user CLEARLY (accidentally) deleted their own Trash folder. (web based email client)
If that's the case then I personally would probably just stop at this point and show the email was deleivered to the server and leave it at that.  Trying to prove users are lying never ends up good.