Of course you would also need a method which utilizes build_room() to create a dictionary of rooms for World.rooms, but that's as easy as...
I'm actually working on something very similar to this.  If you're interested, you can find it all here.  
You could easily add other attributes to World if needed, and it helps to set up for what @Jean mentioned, which is feeding in data from json files.  Surprisingly easy to do, and while the files aren't the prettiest format, it's still much more appealing than scrolling through a wall of code to change a specific room's name because it was hardcoded into a file.
I feel like utilizing classes for some parts but disregarding them for others is throwing the entire thing off. 
It would also be fairly easy, and far more organized, to define a World class with various attributes.
This same principle could be used to create a container for all items in a game, an inventory system, characters, and many other possibilities.
This opens up the possibility for using many other class instances to hold all of your data and storing them within a World() instance for easier access.  All you would need is a method to load the data as a dictionary and unpack it to the arguments of an object instance.  Note, I'm using pkg_resources with this, so you would need to import pkg_resources or just the specific re
The massive if/elif/else block in the command file could easily be a list of predefined Command() instances, and a step further, referenced inside of a Commandlist() instance.  It might take a little bit more time to code all of the class definitions, but everything would be stored more neatly, and would be easier to reference.  As a side note, cmd2 works pretty well for all text-based, has an easy way to define commands, and could be used to test that things are functioning properly.
Note that I'm not advocating this as the best way, or even a good way.  I'm still a beginner and there are many concepts I'm still fuzzy on.  This is just the conclusion I reached from all of my various reading of things other people who seem to actually know what they're talking about have typed out.  Also, I'm no help down the road towards GUI, and I have no idea if any of this would muddle an approach towards it or ease it.