I also tried to insert a path manually as "C:\Program Files (x86)\Mozilla Firefox\firefox.exe". I also tried to apply the rule for other apps: "%ProgramFiles% (x86)\Opera\opera.exe", "%ProgramFiles% (x86)\Google\Chrome\Application\chrome.exe". The result is still unsuccessful.
Firewall rules must be prioritized.  If you have a rule to allow the connection before the blocking rule guess what will happen.   Rearrange the order so blocking happens first.
I am using Windows 7 64 bit and trying to block a specific application from accessing the internet using "Windows Firewall with Advanced Security" (wf.msc). 
It seems that a 3rd party software was interfering with firewalling. In my case it was Avast Antivirus which has some modules for Internet. I turned off "Network" and "Web" "Shields" in it, and the rule is now applied correctly. So the moral seems to be that a 3rd party software may interfere in such a way that Windows Firewall is not able to block (or maybe apply any rules) in application-specific way.
The rule is set to be applied for all profiles, all protocols, all IP addresses. The rule is turned on. Action is "Block the connection". I select a program by browsing to %ProgramFiles% (x86)\Mozilla Firefox\firefox.exe (I am sure that my Firefox runs from this executable). But the rule doesn't work and the application has access to the internet!
OK its been a while since I have looked at the firewall features.  In Windows Firewall with Advanced Features create an Outbound Rule blocking application Mozilla Firefox.  I tested it and it works for me.  If it doesnt work for you maybe you can reset the rules to default and try again.
I had a new Dell computer, just it's pre-installed rubbish, I un-installed McAfee replacing it with Windows Antivirus, and did all Windows updates, and installed Apache server, and no matter what I did I could not get the Firewall rules to work until I reset them to default!
If I change the "Programs" setting in "Programs and services" tab from "This program" to "All programs that meet the specified conditions", then firewall works and the connection is blocked in all applications, including the above browsers.
The new rule appears in "Windows Firewall with Adv. Sec." app but it doesn't work as in the above case.