It's very difficult to determine whether one solution will save money over another.  There are many hidden costs beyond licensing costs.  Lotus Notes is not very similar to Outlook/Exchange other than they both can be used for email.  You could drive yourself mad trying to come up with a fair assessment.  If the decision is above your heads, I'd just get ready to deal with it.  If you have some say in the matter, consider the following.
Just to throw some love Lotus' way, and to make you feel a bit more at ease if you're truly stuck moving, I have to say I really like Lotus Notes/Domino for what it is.  Its strength has never been email alone, but as a collaboration platform and rapid application development platform, it's great.  
Second, there is an undeniable cost to moving between platforms.  Email is the simplest to transition and still could be very expensive given the down time, time to retrain staff, loss of email or fidelity of email during transition, etc.  But beyond that, moving applications/data from SharePoint to Lotus Notes is an enormous and expensive undertaking.  
The question about which is better is completely subjective and I wouldn't even recommend bringing it up.  In fact I assume one of the forum moderators will either edit down or close the question in about 4 milliseconds because of this.  
It can't be determined by an outsider whether the change makes sense or is a management game -it could be a combination of all or none.  This question should be asked to people in your company.
First, there are many tools that allow you to have both Exchange and Lotus Notes in coexistence.  You might consider a phased approach to moving between platforms.  I've had success in a small company running Lotus Notes side-by-side with Exchange for years.
Costs are also nearly impossible to compare without significant analysis.  Microsoft and Lotus generally sell each corporate deal at a different price, not to mention possible resellers and their discounts, and features you want, number of servers, etc.
Third, I don't have numbers to back this up, and I'm going from gut instinct here, but there doesn't seem to be a plethora of Lotus Notes / Domino professionals out there.  On the other hand, Microsoft Exchange professionals are much more common
The "which is better" discussion is HIGHLY specific to your needs, your politics, development and operations skills, preferences, biases and many many more options.
It's impossible to answer any of this so I recommend directing the questions inward towards your organization.
Lastly, consider the worst case scenario.  What if Lotus Notes loses market share in the next five years.  Some might say it has already lost the email battle, but current reports as of 2010 are stating they're a close second to Exchange.  Consider which company you feel safer with in the long run.  