Senior user logs into application, application determines user should have read/write permission.  Connection string created to primary database.
If the answer is "Because my business is on the third floor, and I need to display the car for a promo/giveaway", then you start looking at ways to get it up there.
Yes, you could adjust security so they can only select from views that select from base tables with NOLOCK hints, and I could imagine a few situations where that might be called for (operational support staff needing to occasionally examine production data in real-time, perhaps with some sensitive information/columns omitted as well).
Have your application determine the connection string depending on the user name then it is completely transparent to the user.  The secondary is kept relatively up-to-date depending on latency without the overhead of maintaining a database snapshot.
User logs into application, application determines user should have read only permission.  Connection string created including ApplicatonIntent=ReadOnly.  Connection made to readable secondary database.  If write-activity is required, a separate connection to primary would be required.
Don't turn assumptions and biases into technical requirements, and don't latch on to your first attempt at a solution. Step back and reevaluate what you want to accomplish.
Similar to the Database Snapshot option or having a reporting mirror, but how about using AlwaysOn and read-only routing with SQL 2012?  You can redirect a connection to the readable secondary via the ApplicationIntent=ReadOnly facet of the connection string.
As others have said: don't use NOLOCK willy-nilly. There are certain times where it's appropriate, and 'every query from a specific user' probably isn't one of them. Use one of the better, safer options to deal with concurrency, or your favorite LART if you've got a DBA/developer routinely wedging up the production system with awful queries.
But if the answer is "Because I would like to go home to my third floor apartment," then the proper recommendation is "So park your car in the lot, get out, and take the elevator up to the third floor."