Before you decide to do a clone, you need to first consider that the disk checks could be a symptom of a hardware failure. Run a memory test and hard drive test (a simple "cat /dev/sda > /dev/null" with a live Linux CD that returns no error works fine in a pinch) and make sure your CPU isn't overheating and you don't have bad capacitors or a flaky power supply, because there's a reason the disk checks happen.
Now, on to the cloning option, which may or may not fix your issue, but inquiring minds want to know. Assuming you want to clone to a hard drive of the same or greater size, you can certainly use the Linux "dd" command, i.e. "dd if=/dev/sda of=/dev/sdb" will get the job done for copying sda -> sdb. Any live Linux CD or USB can do this if it can detect your hard drives. If the destination is larger, you'll not be able to use the extra space without creating a new partition in Windows. Note that "easy" tools like GParted may not always work for cloning; you MUST copy the boot code in the MBR to the new disk for that disk to boot the partition, and you must copy the NTFS boot code that occupies sectors beyond the partition boot sector. "dd" will do this automatically because it copies, byte for byte, everything on the disk, including "free space" in the filesystem and the unused sectors between the MBR and the first partition.
I have done a lot of work with cloning filesystems manually (read: the really hard way) using only Linux "dd" and the ntfsprogs tool "ntfsclone" but I guarantee you that you don't want to go through that trouble. Your partition must start on the exact same sector of the disk as before, you must copy the boot code from the MBR and the boot sector AND the NTFS boot area after the boot sector, and if you throw resizing into the mix, it only gets worse; and on the extremely unlikely chance that your computer decides to represent the sector geometry of the new drive differently, you have to hex edit the NTFS boot sector to modify the sector count also.
That's it. My advice to find an automated solution stands, but it wouldn't be a complete answer to your question if I didn't include the hard way.
However, I would run first some diagnostics on your old HDD to find the problem. I used Hitachi Drive Fitness Test, free botable CD which also offers very detailed tests.
If you can do it with dd, do it with dd. If not, another user suggested Clonezilla which might also work. The latest GParted live CD may get the job done as well, but I haven't tested that.
If you need a free alternative, then you can use Seagate Discwizard which should be something like lite Acronis version. There is a way to use it also for non Seagate HDDs.
There are various tools, sometimes the manufacturer will have a tool to transfer to a new drive. There are some free tools such as clonezilla that can do disk to disk cloning. Paid versions are acronis true image, ghost, etc.
If you want to live an exciting life, I'll detail the hard way that I do it when necessary. There are modifications that can be made to this process if needed, but it's the reader's job to figure those out on a case-by-case basis. Assume here that /dev/sda with only one partition is larger than destination /dev/sdb, just so resizing is thrown in there too. If this eats your data, it's not my problem. And now, the hard way to clone a disk with a single NTFS partition from one hard disk to another (assuming the disks are 100% good/healthy/not going to die):
Alternatively, you can foolishly disable all automatic disk checking on a hard drive (I'll assume C: for the example) by typing the following at an elevated command prompt: "chkntfs /X C:" And live blissfully ignorant of any and all filesystem errors that never get checked for again.