I've found that DXO Labs Optics Pro is very good for starters.  It has an automatic correction that you can afterwards override and do everything manually.  They have a fully functional free trial, but the product will set you back around $170.  Give a try like I did and you might end up paying for it.
I am using Aperture (though iPhoto is used for the fun 'happy snaps') as I like how the files are stored and the ease of back ups that the programs give. Plus they have the apple feel that I personally like.
Previously I used Capture One by Phase One. It was nice, but was basically just a conversion tool. Until I upgraded to one of the higher licenses, it had a very small queue and was rather cumbersome. It did produce very good quality images however. In lieu of your question about easy to use software, I would not recommend this. It supports both Windows and Mac.
After doing it for a few years, I personally stopped shooting RAW last year. Since I am usually rather thorough while shooting it didn't really give me much apart from larger files requiring more storage.
Currently I use Adobe Photoshop Lightroom 2, which serves me very well. The price wasn't all that bad, but yes, it's slightly more than what you might be used to for "home" edition type software. Then again, camera RAW files are slightly above what I would suggest "home" people do anyway.
I've also tested Adobe Camera Raw, in conjunction with Adobe Photoshop Elements and Adobe Photoshop Album. Worked rather nice, the conversion process felt a bit clunky to me though.
If anything, I would suggest to people I know that ask to go with Lightroom. It has the organization tools built in and the conversion tools are both powerful and, compared to others I've tried, relatively easy to use.
I haven't used it myself, but I have read good things about dcraw from time to time. There is apparently some sort of drag-drop windows frontend, no clue how well it works.
As for converting on the fly, I rarely have need to do this, but it is quite easy to export your photos in batches within iPhoto. 
After that I tested Bibble, which also supports both Windows and Mac. It too leans heavily towards conversion only. Personally I liked Bibble a lot more than Capture One. The price was nicer as well, at $159 for the Pro license.
As a photographer myself, I only really ever use raw for select images or a photoshoot where I need the extra editing ability that raw gives.
If you are looking for something simple on the Mac that even your mum can use, then I would say iPhoto is the way to go. Not only is it simple to use, but it is fully integrated into all the iLife applications. 
Considering you mention Apple Aperture, I will assume you mean your question for Mac software, but I'll answer with the programs I've been using previously and currently on Windows for the same.
For someone that has little experience with editing or photography, I don't see much point to shooting in raw.