Buy a copy of Jungledisk Workgroup. This does automatic, incremental, delta-only, encrypted, off-site backups to Amazon S3 storage. Deleted or modified files are versioned. All these settings are configurable.
[An extra added benefit is that since you're working with one mesh account, you can add a bunch of devices and replicate the folders between them. Let's say you've got 3 or 4 execs, if they want, you can have "John Brown's" folder replicate to "Jane Smith's" desktop and vice-versa, or everyone's folder replicated to "Mister President and CEO's" desktop.]
We use it to do daily backups on about 150GB of data from several production servers, and several employees' desktops and I can say I'm very satisfied with the solution.
You can even install it automatically and choose to lock down the settings so no-one disables their backups. It runs in Windows, OS X and Linux, and runs as a service so it even backups when the user is not logged in.
Have you considered a service for this?  Companies like digitlitilink text provide offsite backups that don't require any user intervention.  They charge basically by the amount of data stored, however since they do deduplication user data compresses down pretty small.  We're using it for a couple of very special areas that have backup needs they feel are different from the rest of the organization. It works pretty slick, restores are fast and easy, everything that is backed up is encrypted, and it can be restored to any machine. 
We have used the Desktop and Laptop Option (DLO) with Backup Exec.  It works decently well and meets your requirements except file encryption.
For file encryption, the cheap route would be to simply install TrueCrypt on their laptops and use a strong boot password.
I've been experimenting with Windows Live Mesh. It's got 5Gb of storage for free and I could see a setup of something like this:
The fact that it's cloud-based to a reliable party like Amazon is actually a plus for us. What's your reason for disallowing cloud-based solutions? Bandwidth is only an issue on the initial 'full' backup. Any other reasons?
It has a bit of a maintenance cost but for a few executives machines it should be much cheaper than the loss of the data from any of those machines.  IT can get the whole machine OS and all or just selective folders.  
I'm not sure why you mention "Not cloud based" as a requirement, because that seems like a perfectly reasonably option to me.