Notice your image shows two splitters - that's because these adapters are used exclusively in pairs.
Now to answer your question: It will work but only under certain conditions. If you need more than 100Mbps speeds then either run another cat 5e cable to your room or buy another switch. If this is not possible then you'll have to deal with 100Mbps speeds. Also, if you have only one spare port on your router/switch, this is not going to work for you.
Depends upon what you are trying to do, If you are trying to connect two separate machines though Ethernet to the modem/router then you would need a switch(network), but a hub will just connect the two machines to each other and relay the same packets over and over, not achieving much. 
What you can do is put one of these at each end of the wire and have have a much slower connection (theoretically 10/100baseT).
As an alternative, can you run more cable in the wall?  Use the existing wire as a draw cord for several lengths?  This is why overdoing cable runs is a good idea when the wall linings are open.
A splitter works by taking two physical Ethernet ports and sending both connections (which must be limited to using 100mbps speeds) though a single cable. A splitter doesn't connect both ports together in any way. It keeps both ports isolated unlike hubs and switches.
An Ethernet splitter can be thought of a type of device that isn't a hub or a switch. It is a rather simple device that actually does nothing but connect two pairs of 2 Ethernet cables to a single Ethernet cable. If you don't trust Ethernet splitters then you can actually build a cable that does the exact same thing.
These splitters don't carry gigabit at all, and some of them can fail to negotiate 100 Mbit.  Also, they won't negotiate POE either.
Short and sweet: No, an Ethernet splitter will not work for your purpose, use a switch(they can be a little expensive) 
You will need two ports on your switching device, and two cables to this splitter (the combiner?) then one cable onwards through the walls.  In your room you have one cable from the wall to the back of the splitter, then one cable to each device.
Basically, 100Mbps Ethernet only uses 2 out of the 4 pairs in a standard Ethernet cable unlike 1Gbps Ethernet which uses all 4 pairs. In 100Mbps Ethernet, 2 pairs simply get unused. In theory, if you were working with 100Mbps Ethernet, you could use the 2 unused pairs for almost anything. PoE is one way you can make use of the two unused pairs (PoE only works with 100Mbps connections for this very reason). Splitters are just another way of making use of the two unused pairs since you can fit entirely another 100Mbps connection since the connection requires only 2 pairs.