22K QPS is nice; I rarely see that high a number on a production system.  You must be doing rather trivial queries.  (In a quick survey, 7K is the 90th percentile.)
If you use replication to balance reads you can also start reducing the number of slaves until the query response time is above the threshold and check then the current query rate is your limit. 
You can only reduce the number queries if you change the application that sending those queries. Introducing caching, rewriting queries, etc. There are plethora of options but that really depends on your case. Maybe it's completely valid from your application to send that amount of queries and you just need to scale up or out your infrastructure. 
How many active connections do you have?  When SHOW PROCESSLIST show more than a few dozen queries running (not "Sleep") at a time, you are threatening to get in this overburdened situation.
There's no silver bullet to tell you how many queries per second can you process. You can set up different benchmarks to try to estimate. A 'good enough' approach is to register the queries with tcpdump and replay them from external server(s) from multiple parallel threads. You can also play with the concurrency. Register the query response time and plot it as the function of queries / second. When response time is above acceptable threshold that's your maximum queries / seconds for specific concurrency level. I wrote a script some time ago to do the same thing with HTTP requests (the collection is not part of it) and report maximum requests / second: https://github.com/charlesnagy/web-toolkit/blob/master/captest/wt-capacity-test.py It shouldn't be hard to translate to mysql queries. 
It is unlikely that a high query rate will "crash" MySQL.  It can slow things down to the point where it feels "crashed".
There have been benchmarks (carefully designed) that registered more than a million queries per second.  I could devise a situation that could saturate all the system resources, yet achieve only 1 query per minute.  Those extremes indicate that there are a lot of factors going on.