My t1.micro runs PHP in FastCGI mode, with Apache, nginx, postfix, dovecot, vsftp, and mysql - uses 250 MB of memory, and loads a Wordpress blog in under 2s.
I'm going to offer an alternate perspective on this, since my situation is somewhat different (not quite mission critical), and gives me a bit more leeway.
Certainly, the premise is useless for something mission critical, but implement a bit of failover and you could easily have something viable. For me, it is the perfect platform to experiment and test things at the lowest possible cost.
If you focus on costs, you could try cloudorado, which will calculate price of a server at multiple providers. It won't calculate backups though, but server and transfer. 
AWS can be very inexpensive in certain circumstances, and extremely expensive in others - be creative and keep your options open, and you will find what is best for you.
One of my servers is run on AWS - it is mostly for some small sites for me and a few friends, about 10 sites, total data transfer 2GB/mo. All are PHP/MySQL running some CMS.
Unless there's something fundamental missing in your question, I'd say AWS would be a terrible move for you.  Even before you factor in traffic and EBS (which you'll definitely need to store your PgSQL and SearchSphinx databases) it's double the cost, and for what?  Your use case doesn't appear to include any of the things that AWS is actually good at (handling very peaky loads, particularly those that can be handled by background processing; or dealing with rapid growth and an incompetent IT staff that can't do capacity planning), so you'll be paying the "instant scaling" tax without getting anything back for it.
My monthly cost is $12+/-2: $5 for instance costs, $2.5 for snapshots, $3.5 for EBS (and the remainder is for 'miscellaneous items' ($0.5 for S3, $0.2 for bandwidth, $0.08 for Cloudfront, etc). I could add another server for about $8/mo (which I plan to do sometime).
The reason my costs are so low (other than the obvious - small sites and micro instance) is because I go with the spot price. I have noticed that the fluctuation is minimal, typically the same as the reserved instance cost. So I have overbid significantly (something like $0.5 for the $0.007 instance) and I am essentially guaranteed that the instance will not be terminated. I doubt you will find a VPS solution for under $5/mo with root access. 