I recently helped a friend test a new mobo and CPU before he had his RAM and PSU. I simply unhooked my cables, and reached them to his hardware, powered it up, and all was well... When I went to reattach my cable to my hardware, I realized I had left the 6-pin auxiliary GPU power connector attached to my graphics card. When I tried to power up my system, the fans briefly spun, and it immediately powered off. Removing the GPU was the only way for the PC to boot. I thankfully had integrated graphics. On a whim, I let the card sit for some time, and tried again, and was able to get it to boot.
In my case, there was enough charge left in the capacitor(s) to spin up fans, begin spinning up hard drives, and some other effects were usually noticed such as monitors flickering, keyboard LEDs turning on, and speakers receiving some amount of static (though I suppose that could be induced current instead of a signal coming from the sound card).
I suppose that if you left the computer alone for some time, the problem will clear up by itself, even via the LED lights. However, pressing the power button will instantly discharge any power stored in PSU and get rid of the static charge.
You're spot on with the capacitors though.  As a test, you could unplug the machine and let it sit there for awhile and eventually the capacitors will have discharged enough that the effect would be equivalent to pressing the power button after unplugging it.
I don't know why it won't turn on, hopefully someone can provide that particular answer.  My best guess has been a failsafe in the motherboard to protect it.
If the motherboard or PSU detect an error state at power up... Well, to protect the hardware, the safest thing to do is shut down.
The computer is supposed to eliminate the residual static charge, but sometimes in such abnormal conditions it doesn't happen. Due to this the motherboard protects itself by turning itself off. This accounts for the symptoms you describe : fans spinning up but no POST, meaning that power is coming in but the motherboard does not function.
For reference, the computer I saw that issue with was custom built by me.  It's probably a feature (or flaw?) in the motherboard.  I tended to go with Asus branded motherboards back when I built it.
My theory, is that there are capacitors for the auxiliary and the primary (mother board PCIe slot supplied) power rails on the GPU. There are likely MOSFETS that are used int he power regulation circuitry for the GPU hardware, and I am wondering if the anomalous charge conditions (power int he aux side but not the PCIe side) in the power supply caused some manner of non standard voltage potential to be applied to the regulation circuits. If the Gate of a MOSFET were hit by a charge, when it normally would start up in a non charged state, it would inhibit flow between the Source and Drain of the MOSFET. Normally, regulation occurs by pulsing the gate to enable and inhibit flow of electrons, to carefully adjust the flow. If a stray charge were being held there, due to the anomalous charge state of the circuit, it would prevent any flow at all.