pmacct is a small set of passive network monitoring tools to measure, account,     classify, aggregate and export IPv4 and IPv6 traffic; its main features are:
Whenever someone tells me "Such and such is no good" as someone has done there, I always ask for specifics. A lot of the time you'll find it's hearsay, or based on some belief that because of a buggy version 5 years ago, someone has made a generalisation. Chinese whispers abound in IT!
When you say "monitoring network activity" I presume you mean counting the RX and TX bytes from ifconfig. I've not heard anything about it being unreliable. We export those values via SNMP and graph them. They're compared to switch activity that we're also graphing which is the other endpoint of those connections and I can see no disparity which would suggest they're unreliable.
Either using memory or SQL tables as backend storage, pmacct can easily feed     data into external tools including RRDtool, GNUPlot, Net-SNMP, MRTG and Cacti     among the others. Little scripting abilities are required and a number of sample     scripts, contributions, web frontends and some tutorials are already available.
OVERVIEW. IP accounting is key activity underlying essential network management tasks like billing,   graphing network resources usage, live or historical traffic trends analysis, steering BGP   peerings, real-time alerting and certain SLA monitoring. Often SNMP counters do not help   in these areas because of their coarse granularity; live traffic mirroring, NetFlow and   sFlow break this barrier by offering data at a finer granularity. But current high-speed    large-scale networks are able to produce, in very short times, high amounts of data that   become quickly difficult to be processed. In this context, both spatial and temporal   aggregation, flexible filtering and sampling capabilities become key requirements.
Pktstat Display a real-time list of active connections seen on a network interface, and how much bandwidth is being used by what. Partially decodes HTTP and FTP protocols to show what filename is being transferred. X11 application names are also shown. Entries hang around on the screen for a few seconds so you can see what just happened. Also accepts filter expressions á la tcpdump. 
Depending on how historical you want to get with your TX/RX stats, I'd perhaps use munin. Munin won't tell you the why though. Here's an example of the graphs that munin can produce.
mtr to validate dropped packets and response time.  Running mtr -i 15 for a while will tell you if you have periodic problems, and give you some idea of where in the network they are.
tcptrack is a sniffer which displays information about TCP connections it sees on a network interface. It passively watches for connections on the network interface, keeps track of their state and displays a list of connections in a manner similar to the unix ‘top’ command. It displays source and destination addresses and ports, connection state, idle time, and bandwidth usage.