I'm already researching these. For basic domain/profile management with Windows clients they look very promising. And I've already created domains with ClearOS. The e-mail/domain/proxy integration they've done so far is excellent. Will be trying a full temo of Univention which in some ways is more advanced in development although its seems geared to larger businesses. As for e-mail, integrating outlook, not sure I would go that route. There are better, more customizable clients out there that run on M$ Windows, Thunderbird is a great choice. You may consider look at OpenXchange as well for e-mail client integraiton or web based.. For general Exchange "simulation' its not bad.
It comes down to whether you want to spend time implementing Samba or spend money implementing Windows Server. We use Samba, but there's a few niggles, but it's significantly cheaper than Windows Server. In particular, Samba doesn't seem to be noticing changes to group memberships until you restart it. It does give us a bit more flexibility than Windows would allow. We use LDAP for our authentication and it seems to work reasonably well.
I have used both Microsoft AD and the Samba Implementation (Samba 4) to be exact.The Microsoft AD is easier to implement BUT it is not cheap.If you know your way around Linux,You can set up a shiny new Samba 4 install on an Ubuntu 14 Server in under 24 hours.In as far as management,you may not notice a difference between Microsoft AD and Samba4 since in both,you will use the Windows RSAT for Administration.I have not come across a single thing that Microsoft Supported that Samba4 did not Support.For Stability,i found the Samba to be more stable since it runs on Linux.Microsoft AD inherits Microsoft windows server problems.Samba 4 implementation is a very stable implementation of AD especially if you are using Debian Distributions.It is very very well supported under debian.I have not done much on Red hat Distros so i can't tell much about implementation of Samba on Red Hat.One catch with Samba 4 Implementation,YOU MUST KNOW YOUR WAY AROUND IN LINUX!!!!!
Windows Server 2008 (you shouldn't be rolling out 2003 now) costs a few hundred bucks. You're going to waste far more $$ on your own time fixing glitches, writing scripts for the admin users setting up accounts, etc.