First, in general, if you have dedicated servers, I think you are usually better off using them.  Through a business that does hosting for a PostgreSQL-backed ERP, I am relatively aware of what the problems are.  For us, replication is more or less set up out of the box but tuning the db is problematic.  I would expect that 2ndQuadrant's hosting (which I think is dedicated server if I understand correctly) to be able to set up and things for you, but I am not sure what the package would cost.
Heroku have a very simple and quick interface for creating PostgreSQL databases, but you might find that the options are limited. AFAIK you get a single user account, and because the system is shared there are limitations on what you can tweak. For the most part you get to choose the memory allocaton, and this is what they charge by. You are limited in the extensions you can use, and they do not currently support foreign data wrappers for example.
Auto-configuration for performance tuning and resources is a big difficulty.  This is dependent, honestly, not only on resources available but on query profiles. Things like effective cache size can be changed, but what about shared_buffers?  Increasing this can have a negative impact on database performance in some cases.
You can research "ashnik" (EnterpriseDB - The Postgres Database Company) - Ashnik enables enterprises adopt open source software solution with confidence
At Efficito, we set up replication by default since we use it for taking base backups (pg_basebackup requires that replication is enabled and continuous archiving configured).  This being said, that's the easy part.
One huge issue with cloud hosting though is that it is far harder to guarantee the performance required than it is with dedicated hardware.  If dedicated hardware is an option, go with it (and if you need hosting/management, contact 2ndQuadrant).  If you really need cloud hosting, consider the options by others. 
Setting up databases and follower databases is trivially simple however, and upgrading between plans is simple.