After looking at what the company had and what they needed I chose to use an old PC and install Smoothwall Express, partly because I had been using that product for a number of years and was already confident and comfortable with it. This does of course mean there is no external support for the firewall, which carries a degree of risk, but it's a risk the company is comfortable with. I'll just add that as a firewall Smoothwall is as good as I've seen for our kind of scale but it may not necessarily be the best choice for a much larger organisation.
In our situation the cost of something like Cisco or similar just couldn't be justified, especially as I have no experience with it (I'm a one-man IT "department"). Also, the expensive commercial units offer no true benefit to us.
And don't discount the ability to "blame someone else" - when you've traced a major outage to a bug in the firewall at 3am in the morning it's very nice to be able to speak to the vendor and say "I don't care if its software or hardware, its your problem either way".
To some extent there is the "It just works" argument.  No worrying about hardware quirks and little fuss over software bugs.
We do have some OpenBSD boxes lying around that do use pf for some filtering, and I've spent easily 10x as much on time maintaining the boxes and firewalls as I have the PIXes.  We've also found on occasion that we hit hard limits in OpenBSD for traffic.
You've had some good answers already talking about technical stuff and support. All important things.
Your time to create, configure and support a "roll your own" hardware firewall internally is an investment for your employer. Like all things, the business has to decide if that investment is worth it.
Clearly there is no one-size-fits-all answer to this question, so I'll describe what I've done and why.
That said there are other vendors equally worthwhile as Cisco, and you can recreate it all yourself.  You just have to weigh up whether or not your time and any possible hassles are worth it.
What you/your manager need to consider is where your time is best spent. The question of whether or not "rolling your own" is worthwhile might change completely if you're a specialist network security person and/or your employer has specialist firewall requirements that aren't easy to setup in an off shelf product compared to someone who has lots of duties to consider besides network security and whose needs can easily be met by plugging in a network appliance.
Not just in this specific case but in general, there's been a few times I've purchased a solution "off the shelf" or hired in some consultancy for something I'm quite capable of doing myself because my employer would rather my time was spent elsewhere. This can be quite a common case, especially if you're facing a deadline and saving time is more important than saving money.
Plug in, enter the necessary rules and leave them to it.  A lot of the hassles and effort involved in managing a roll-your-own box is completely covered.
It's also worth pointing out that a PIX is a lot more than, say, iptables.  PIXes also include some elements commonly seen in Intrusion Detection Systems (IDS), along with other bits.  Firewall hardware is also generally much more specialised for the purpose of processing packets at high speed, rather than the more generalised nature of a bog standard server.
To set the picture: We're a fairly small business with around 25 office staff and perhaps the same number on the production floor. Our primary business is as specialised printers who at one time enjoyed a monopoly but are now fighting an increasing amount of opposition from cheap imports, mostly from China. This means that while we would love Rolls Royce level service and hardware we generally have to settle for something more along Volkswagon levels.