I do this on my home PC, and I don't have hard numbers to indicate a performance improvement, but it does give the advantage of keeping your data safe from any viruses or malware that might wreck your Windows install.
Now, doing this on the same hard drive but separate partitions, that won't be as high performance as separate disks. But again, performance isn't the main reason why you would want to do this.
The primary reason is to separate your data from your operating system and programs. This is why many Unix systems have /home as a separate filesystem. OS upgrades don't interfere with your data. I've built my systems where "Program Files" was on a separate partition of the same disk the OS was on, and my data lived on a separate disk entirely. This made reinstalling the OS easy, but that practice is deprecated on newer Windows OS's. I don't install a lot of crap programs, so my OS doesn't get crufty, so I don't have to reinstall every 6 months to a year :-).
The performance considerations are marginal at best, on a very fast drive. I have done this for years and haven't noticed performance to suffer or improve either way. I don't benchmark, it's a waste of time when I know I've purchased high performance hardware to begin with.
Nowadays with high speed gigabit ethernet and a basement available for noisy server systems, I keep my data on a separate physical system. Most of the data I'm accessing is media for playback on my HTPC, and gigabit is perfectly acceptable for streaming.
Of course, you can do this with multiple partitions on a single hard drive too, but I'd like to think that using multiple drives provides a performance improvement (especially if you put your page file on the second drive).
I use only a single disk but I partition it in two different partitions since my disk is never a bottleneck and I get the benefit of a "drive" to the operating system and another "drive" to my data.
Are you talking about Windows? Its an outdated strategy.  Windows makes such heavy use of the registry.  So if your installed apps sit on another drive then, because of registry data, important bits of the app are still on the os drive.