ZeroConf was invented to deal with just this situation: no DHCP or DNS server. Indeed it would solve this problem very well - the device assigns itself an AutoIP address, and then advertises its services so you can find it regardless of its IP address. The trouble with ZeroConf is that users need to install software on some operating systems in order to support it (e.g. Windows), and some client operating systems might not have a ZeroConf library available at all. The same goes for other proprietary discovery mechanisms that use a bit of proprietary software to configure devices' IP addresses.
DHCP and DNS might be a good solution if it wasn't for the fact that plenty of networks out there still have no server present and use fixed IP addresses. If you don't want to lock those people out from using your device then you at least need to fall back to some other system.
I would use 192.168.x.y where x and y are random numbers excluding 0, 255 and 1 for y. Since you want to avoid conflict, it doesn't make sense to pick some 'good' default address, because others would then pick the same address.
I've always prefered to set IP configuration directly on a device before connecting it, either via an panel or serial port. But the trend these days seems to be to only have a network port, so the best approach would be to default to DHCP, then fall back to 169.254.x.x link-local addressing, and perhaps use multicast service discovery (ZeroConf/Bonjour) so you can find the new widget's current address in order to give it a new one. Also, make sure the MAC address is on a readable label on the outside of the device.
My preference would be to default to DHCP with a known DNS name (as long as only one device will come up on the same network at the same time), but fall back to one of the following if no server is available:
I realise you're probably just looking for a good relatively unused IP address, but these are alternatives worth considering if you can spare the man hours to implement them.
Several years ago I came across a device which came without any default ip address or dhcp client.  Instead you set the ip address using arp and ping.  There's online documentation for an Epson printer with a similar option.  This particular device also came with Windows software which would send the arp and ping commands for you.