You could install a simple webserver (must at least be able to send html-files) to check if a specific html-file-content is sent wen using curl. (curl http://adress will write the content of the answer of the webserver to stdout).
Which tasks? Lets say you want it to perform tasks using web and database and dns services. You could write a script that would check if all those services are running and server is not overloaded. Other than that, unless those tasks are not defined there is no useful way of knowing if server is ready to perform (which) tasks.
I don't think there's a single command to check for default services remotely, as the default services vary depending on your task. 
I'm using ping to check if a Linux machine is online and ready to be used. However, ping doesn't really tell you if the system is actually doing anything useful, just that the kernel's network subsystem is alive and configured. Is there any way to tell that the machine is completely ready to perform tasks?
The most basic approach, if you just want to see what a machine is doing would be to use some sort of
Aside from pinging a host you could probably check if a specific port is open without any prior knowledge and without access to the machine itself. 
Sorry I wasn't clear. The tasks I need the machines to perform are varied. Some just run very small tests. Others talk to databases. And there'll probably be new tasks that the machines in the network will need to perform in the future. Is there a single command that tells me that all core(default) services are running?
Alternatively - thats something i used in the past - write a specific daemon for your server that collects info thats useful for you (as before, memory load, processes, ...) and transmit this to your supervision site regularly. But you'll have to make sure that you detect and handle the case where no updates arrive anymore.
For a machine running a web service that you control i'd recommend creating a specific page with the info you're interested in (e.g mem load, processes, ...) in a format of your choice (xml, json, ...) and fetch and eval this on a regular basis.
It sometimes happens that one of our servers is running perfectly alright but the DKIM service is stopped, it then makes PostFix unable to send out email, it can easily go undetected if we were not to check DKIM service. So you really have to define and then check for specified services in order to be sure.
You could even wrap this in a php exec statement and transfer it to a client machine when the machine is running a webserver.