There is one reason why I would see this might be desirable: Dynamic Network Address Translation.  This isn't the normal Linux Masquerading type of port address translation that you usually think of, but rather the on-demand dynamic mapping of a range of real addresses to internal hosts that need to use them.
Why anybody desires this,seems a little dodgy to me,unless it's for some type of load-balancing,or virtualization on the PC.(how about NAT)
If you do dynamic NAT, you don't have to statically map ports for certain things to a single host.  For example, if I have a World of Warcraft updater going on more than computer in my private network, with the ubiquitous port address translation (masquerading), only one would be able to participate in the bittorrent-like sharing that it does because you can only map exposed ports on the one outside IP address to a single inside address.  If you had a list of addresses you could dynamically assign for full address translation, however, you wouldn't need to do any port mapping.  Since many cable providers don't allow you to get a static allocation of a range of IP addresses, you're forced to ask for each of them using DHCP and then NAT those addresses dynamically to internal addresses.  Using separate physical interfaces for dynamic NAT would be wasteful, since all you really need is more MAC addresses on the same interface.
One thing that this link points out is that you can't use dhcp on the parent physical interface for the macvlan virtual interfaces because it confuses dhcp.  I haven't tried any of this, I'm actually pretty excited to try to get dhcp working on my cablemodem using macvlan interfaces, as @b0fh and @lars-bailey have suggested.
As far as I know this is not possible. DHCP assigns addresses based on MAC addresses (and some rules), and all your aliases are based on the same MAC, so the DHCP server won't be able to distinguish any requests, as they all come from the same MAC. In addition to that, once the basic IP address is set, you will have a hard time convincing your DHCP client that it needs another address.
I would like to create several aliases to eth0, but have the addresses assigned by DHCP instead of being set to static IP's.  Is this even possible? 