I'm not sure how you're turning off Cached Exchange Mode in your testing, but Outlook 2003 and 2007 will function fine w/o creating an .OST file so long as Cached Exchange Mode is disabled.
As Evan says, disabling OST files/cached mode is guaranteed to place more load on your server/s, it's not something you should do lightly.
I am looking for a solution which would allow to use a convenience of Outlook as a mail client app while at the same time have no PST or OST files on a local computer.
Placing the Outlook cache on a "network drive" would partially defeat the purpose of the cache (which is to provide fast local access to remotely hosted data).
Having said that, Cached Exchange Mode is helpful in many circumstances and, typically, doesn't impact the user negatively (since most PCs today have entirely too much local storage). Cached Exchange Mode can reduce server load by decreasing the I/O and CPU resources that users consume on the server (by servicing requests out of their local cache, rather than forcing the server to fulfill user requests).
Perhaps if you describe your reasons for wanting to do this, the community might have further advice.
Would it be feasible to place OST files on a network share? Maybe the solution exists for some other client+server pair?
I'm guessing that a small ost file is being created, on the order of 265KB. This ost file is created as a result of the Offline Folder settings on the advanced tab of the Outlook profile properties. This is normal. This is not cached mode. These are Offline Folders. This is not a copy of the mailbox. The ost file you're seeing is for the Offline synchronization of mailbox folders configured for Offline synchronization in your Send\Recieve groups. If you don't want any ost file created then disable Offline Folders by selecting that option in the Offline Folders settings (again, on the Advanced tab of the Outlook profile properties. While Offline Folders and cached mode are very similar, they are not the same thing. Cached mode keeps a complete copy of your mailbox in the ost file while Offline folders keeps a copy of only those folders configured for offline synchronization.
Even in 'non-caching' mode Outlook creates an OST file where it downloads everything from the Exchange server. OWA does not create any local files (except cookies I believe) but lacks some of the nice features Outlook has.