I use Forefront TMG so I used the API to add bad IP addresses to a group of IPs that way and I've asked Cisco to add API access to one of their SMB routers (which they have assured me they just might do!)
If you want to use the native Windows Firewall to block them have a look at the API for that ("netsh advfirewall").
I found http://www.windowsecurity.com/articles/logon-types.html to be helpful. I used EventLogWatcher and bound to "*[System/EventID=4625 or System/EventID=4624]" so I could reset a bad count on success if the user genuinely just got their password wrong. Also I whitelisted ::1, 0.0.0.0, 127.0.0.1 and "-". You may or may not wish to whitelist LAN / management IPs.
I'm more familiar with Linux tools to stop brute force attacks, so I'm having trouble finding suitable tools for Windows. I'm running a Windows Server 2008 R2 with Terminal Server, and I'd like to block an IP after repeated attempts to login via RDP. Any hints?
Are you trying to prevent break-ins, or cluttered logs? If you're trying to prevent break-ins, Windows has a built-in way to block attempts at logging in. There is an Account Lockout Threshold Group Policy setting in Computer Configuration -> Policies -> Windows Settings -> Security Settings -> Account Policy -> Account Lockout Policy.
Attackers will use common user names like Administrator, and they will certainly lock those out. You'd need a separate account for actual administration, which is probably advisable anyhow. 
For Remote Desktop however I discovered that going into "Remote Desktop Session Host Configuration" and changing the RDP-TCP connection to have the security layer of "RDP Security Layer" instead of "Negotiate" or "SSL (TLS 1.0)" brought back the IP addresses.
I have a C# program that does exactly this. I had an issue on Server 2008 R2 where the event log didn't always list the IP addresses of the user (if they connected from the newer Remote Desktop clients). Some services implement their own credential check provider that doesn't provide all of the information you would want.
http://cyberarms.net/security-insights/security-lab/remote-desktop-logging-of-ip-address-%28security-event-log-4625%29.aspx
Automatically blocking at the firewall level will require some scripted log reading with automatic updating of firewall rules. You should be able to add rules based on IP address this way. This is basically what iptables does in a Linux system.
It may be a bit obvious, but have you also considered running Remote Desktop Services on a non-standard port? This has been very effective for me at thwarting break-ins.
to stop rdp login attempts, as already told, you need control of your firewall to isolate a particular ip. You can do some settings in Administrative tools -> Terminal services manager but can do nothing to stop one ip in this way. Maybe you've to consider a batch script to listen rdp port and control logon failures, so if there were a tot attempts (you choose the number...) by the same ip, then no other attempt for a known span of time could be. I'm not sure if it's possible, but could be a way...
Whether you really want to do this is another question for you, "If you select RDP Security Layer, you cannot use Network Level Authentication."