Connecting with WSMan you can connect to the iDRAC of the server(s) and get their powerstate. This then can then determine if you need to poweron the box or leave it as is. PowerShell can help with making this connection but you need to know the commands. The WOL dosn't apply being that it is an Out-of-Band Management device the iDRAC as it is always on as long as the server has power. I hate pointing to resources on other sites but in this case Dell has put together a doc to help with something close to what you are talking about. It uses PowerShell v3 to accomplish the task. http://en.community.dell.com/cfs-file.ashx/__key/communityserver-components-postattachments/00-20-18-70-55/Microsoft-Windows-PowerShell-Cim-Cmdlets-with-Dell-iDRAC.pdf 
​http://www.bartsp34ks.nl/networking/how-turn-on-your-dell-server-with-a-script-using-idrac-and-putty/
WOL was configured on one the system NICs on each server and the MAC address recorded in a hosts file with the server ID. This was done through the BIOS NIC menus.
As far as I know, iDRAC has no WOL, there is however a WOL on other network interfaces, but I wouldn't enable it if your machine is connected to the internet. I also doubt that iDRAC supports scheduled reboot. You idea to use an SSH script is seemingly the best way to go.
I know you mentioned WOL Magic Packets, but you also mentioned you have SSH at your disposal. Here's a way to power on a Dell with iDRAC using SSH:
The WOL is activated via a powershell script which wakes the servers in a very specific order as we have clusters and servers which depend on other systems being available first. 
While unable to schedule a power up on individual servers I accomplish this by having a Locally connected workstation with this ability which in turn can then run the WOL powershell script to manage the power up and monitor progess of service / node startup.
While in ideal conditions all runs well I have come across enough issues which have led me to insisting on being on site, some of these issues included elcectricians not completing work on time (late or partial power up) and system faults which only became visible following system power down and power up. The automated power up is still very valuable though as it reduces to risk of failure from human error - a possible issue at 3AM!