In bigger organizations, when work is split into specialized cells - often the concept of the whole system is not in focus. This leads to problems like optimizing to local optima. For example, if you have a team that manages a Jenkins server and another team of developers who need to use it - the Jenkins admins can do improvements and work that looks good in their JIRA. But actually, hurts the developers using the system. In a Systems Thinking organization, people would work towards improving the system as a whole, not adding improvements that are local and either have no effect on the whole or hurt the process.
For IT organizations, one common notation is that inventory is a number of tasks in the backlog. Joel Spolsky wrote an amazing article that explains and expands on this this concept.
The purpose of a VSM is to provide optimal value to customers of the organization, with minimum waste in the value creation process (Lean). "Value" is what the customer of the organization is buying.
A Value Stream Map is a representation of the flow of work, inventory and information from supplier to the customer through your organization. The VSM enables you to see at a glance where the delays are in your process, any constraints and excessive work or inventory.
Creating a VSM has a goal of its own, improving the organization. Thus the first step is mapping the current flow of work and information. Next step is designing and implementing some improvements, and in the future continue iterating and improving as well. The VSM is a visual dashboard showing the work and measurements around it, so the bottleneck is clearly visible and can be controlled (using Theory of Constraints).
In an organization that is using Kanban to manage work, it is used to manage the pull of value from the customer standpoint. Unfortunately, often people don't really know how Kanban works and why it is defined as it is, so they use Kanban to push work onto customers (or the market) - this often leads to a lot of wasted work and frustrated people who don't see their work having an impact.