I had a similar issue - it was occurring on some servers but not others (by pure coincidence it was split along 2014 v 2016 lines). 
I need a user, that can create a databas and become db_owner on the databas he creates but not be an sysadmin.
So have the dbcreate server role changed in how it works in SQL 2016 or is it just a setting or installation feature that i have missed?
After that i ran that script i had no problem creating users and set them as Dbcreator and create database with the user and it then got to be a db_owner on the database.
In SQL 2016 this does not happen and the database you create gets inaccessable because the user is added to the database only as a user and not as a db_owner and sa is set as dbo.
In the end it turned out to be because the login I was using (with only db_creator rights) was a user in model on the affected servers, so the CREATE DATABASE statement had an error when trying to assign ownership of the new database to that login. In short, it was unable to map dbo to my login name. So instead it mapped dbo to sa, and thus left my login without any rights on the new database.
Well the problem is not that u can't create the user with that server role, the problem is that it does not work like in 2014.
In SQL 2012 and 2014, if a user have the server role dbcreator and public and create a databas that user got db_owner db role on the created database and could do what ever he needed to with that database.
Does anyone know of any changes in the roles between 2012/2014 and 2016 regarding this and how do i solve it, what server role does, the lowest possible, a user need to have go become db_owner on the database it creates?
In sql 2016, you still can create user who can create a databas and become db_owner on the databas he creates but not be an sysadmin.
I got a TSQL script for creating a User with dbcreate server role, then using that  user to create the database and the user got the db_owner db role.
That user can login with [user1] and create database and do all CRUD operations in that database (only)