The bottom line is that if you really want to be secure, there's no reason to use dd for erasing things. It won't stop any kind of sophisticated attack. If shred takes longer than a sledgehammer would, then use the sledgehammer instead. If you can't afford to lose the disk space, then take the time to use shred. Using dd for this purpose just isn't secure enough.
If you are overwriting an entire disk, then dd should the job fine AFAIAA. shred allows the secure deletion of individual files, and even if you shred every file on the disk, it preserves the filesystem. So the difference is that they operate at different levels. Shred's need to figure out where a particular file is stored and only overwrite that bit is presumably why it takes longer.
Define "securely". How badly do you want this data to be gone, and how painful would it be to lose the storage space? If the data absolutely positively must never be seen ever again by anybody, the proper tool isn't dd or shred: it's a sledgehammer.
No, they won't be securely removed. If you overwrite the disk with zero's then it still will be possible to recover the data. If you do it with random data (/dev/random) once, it still will be possible to recover the data. You need to overwrite the disk with dd at least couple of times. Which will take exactly the same time (or even longer) as with shred. 
As others have stated DD is not going to do what you need. DBAN is a very good tool for this. DD will not make the files un-recoverable. Even DBAN or other tools do not have a 100% guarantee. If you are concerned with data security the best option is to destroy the physical media. 
If you don't quite need to go that far, then you can use software, but the question still remains: who do you think might want the data, and how important is it that they not get it? A pass of zeroes will stop a script kiddie, but if anyone is actually being paid to recover your data, they won't have much trouble getting it. A pass of zeroes, a pass of ones, and a pass of /dev/random will make a determined attacker's life pretty miserable, but if they've got the resources and want your data badly enough, there are still ways to get it, and running that many passes takes long enough that you might as well use shred anyway.