May I suggest a different approach, Multi User OS Interaction. Associating the control of  different process's to multiple windows sessions. Implementing a shared desktop solution for windows, that would allow multiple windows sessions to share one desktop. Obviously every aspect of the OS should be accounted for this to work correctly. Multiuser OS development could allow interaction to work over remote sessions. This could greatly improve final value to high end multiprocessor hardware. Or multiscreen multiplayer game functionality. 
I have been using two mice alternating (one on each side of my keyboard) for ergonomic reasons. Windows 7 allowed for this just fine for 2 years until a month ago or so, That is when the one on the left started to execute a double click if I clicked once. It also highlighted a whole word if I only wanted to place the cursor in a certain spot. 
That's when I ran into EitherMouse and downloaded it. Alas, life is good again! No more crazy mouse behaviour.
You can use Microsoft Multi-Point SDK (http://www.microsoft.com/multipoint/mouse-sdk/ , for people who have basic developer/math skills) or Mouse Mischief (http://www.microsoft.com/multipoint/mouse-mischief/en-us/default.aspx) for those who are teachers. P.S. never can you have two mouse cursors because usually the application draws them not the windows OS. I am researching this for my Kinect project here which will emulate multiple mice device and input to them from multiple Kinect users: http://kinectmultipoint.codeplex.com. Keep checking up on it because I am researching a better method then Microsoft's DSF(Device simulation framework)  to do so. For the most part, the Kinect code is close to working but I am still working on the mouse simulation part.
I have no idea if this works, but here is an AutoIt script that claims to allow two cursors at once from two separate mice.
I asked my office professional for another mouse to check if this was a hardware issue - Nope! Same thing again. 