That said, I still think that there's a core question here that can be answered in a general way that fits the format and may be useful to you and to others who may happen upon your post.
As you're working, communicate what you're doing to the staff and solicit from them issues that they need solved, ideas they may have, etc. This will help them be involved and to see that their cooperation will benefit them. Be careful not to step on toes.
You can use the sensitivity of the data to sell the idea of keeping proper user accounts and passwords, central storage, proper backups and all the other things as a service to the organization's clients who deserve that kind of care.
As you progress, you'll be able to do training along the way. And as you do this you can begin to clean up the habits and procedures of the users and the organization. You'll also be able to clean up the individual PCs and move local storage onto the network.
Don't feel like you have to take everything on yourself. Recruit a savvy user to help. Recruit a friend or peer from outside the organization as a volunteer.
Moving from the current free-wheeling environment where anyone can do anything to their machines to one where they're only allowed to save things to the server will be a major, major change. It will take months to ease them into it and there will be revolts. Your Executive level people will be the loudest in insisting on the ability to save locally. This kind of thing is best done when you have firm buy-in from the top of the organization, it isn't something you can push in on your own authority. Once you get that buy in, all it takes is a new Executive Director with different ideas about what people should be able to do to the computers to blow it all out of the water.
Ooo, that's a classic non-profit network you have on your hands. I've seen one or two, and that's par for the course. Having a dedicated tech-person there will do wonders for their organization, but it'll take real time to make systematic changes. The failure modes I've learned in tech-lite non-profits (this is far from an exhaustive list):
Backup. Getting everything onto central storage will go a long way. For those that insist on local documents, some of the online backup packages would be very well suited (assuming internet speeds allow). You may have to break out regulations regarding the handling of SSNs and HIPAA regulations to force changes. It won't make you popular, but it may get change done. 
Dealing with the data problem... it's probably best if you move everyone's My Documents to something on the network under your control. You'll still be retraining users for months after the change to not save it all over their C:\ drive or wherever they've been doing it. The paranoid will have to be convinced that their data really is eyes-only for the right people (and may still not trust you). It is very likely that the Executive Director will insist on keeping everything on their PC for 'safety', which you may just have to deal with.
As for the storage device... this is exactly why Microsoft sells Small Business Server. If that's overkill, a single machine running Server 2008 can be a DC and the file-server, while giving you the benefit of group policy management. Also, it's easily comprehended by follow on sysadminly volunteers (even if they don't like it). 
Linux alternatives have the down side of not having well understood configuration procedures, which does not foster a good plug-n-play SysAdmin environment. On the one hand, having Microsoft there means that the power-users-who-aren't may be tempted to play sysadmin when you're on vacation or otherwise not available and that could be a bad thing. On the other hand, having a Linux box there means that it takes a certain minimum level of familiarity to do anything and thus weed out the truly dangerous people. 
The approach I would take is big-to-small. Get the infrastructure in order. Organize and correct the networking, servers and central storage. Also make things physically neat and tidy. Inventory your systems, determine what must-haves that you need. Solicit donations of hardware, software and cash. Shop on eBay and Salvation Army stores that sell computer equipment (if you're in the US - there may be thrift shops that sell computer stuff elsewhere, too). It sounds like memory upgrades may be high on the list. There's no reason that P4s can't be fine for office work running XP at least as long as it's still supported for security patches.
Your situation seems like a tough one. It's also (as a whole) too broad for this format. This site is more about finite questions and answers and I hope you return here for help with those more specific issues.
Solving these depends a lot on who you've got in the office. There isn't much help for computer-phobes, they're a hazard in any compassion-based non-profit. Power users who aren't will be a thorn in your side for a few months, but they can be co-opted. Once you have them on your side, and it goes faster if you teach them stuff along the way, can be a serious force for good.