All in all, I see very little advantage in placing LGBT themes in your title. Those customers gained via point (1) will likely be disappointed, yielding short-term benefit but little in the long-term, whereas you will likely lose some customers due to (2) and (4), and may permanently lose a subset of customers via (3). About the only measurable advantage is that controversy is free advertising, and you may, if you are lucky, end up inundated with social justice sales (5). But it's a tremendously risky strategy, and essentially costs you the soul of your game.
Your game sales will most likely have nothing to do with the sexual orientation of your characters. What will matter to the players is how developed the characters are and how realistic they feel. 
Such an option would allow you to opt out of taking sides, which might be what you really want, as you'd not want to enter the any particular reality distortion field (RDF). If anything, as a game designer, your task is to exploit the players own RDF. 
Alternatively, simply place the content with enough subtlety that neither journalist nor child will detect it; to avoid detection by the former, one may simply place such themes after the tutorial, but avoiding detection by the latter may require some exemplary writing talent.
To a certain extent, yes, it will affect sales of your games. Even if you do it right, by depicting the characters as not only human, but also fallible, and not always a victim, and keep such themes in proportion to the intended primary themes of the game, you will, if your game receives any press at all, encounter some games journalist who will blow the entire character out of proportion. This may shift public perception of your game towards a "LGBT romance" theme, with several effects: 
If you manage to get half of this right, you will have a decent game. If you manage to get all of it right, you will have a gem.
If you make a character that is (insert some stereotypical LGBT character here) then you will most likely hurt your sales. Not because you included someone from the LGBT community, but because you did not give enough thought to the character.
Well, I presume you could include a setup option that includes/excludes possibly controversial features, perhaps with defaults guided by the player's age, or (better yet), oriented by actions taken by the player while playing. 
There is a very highly rated point-and-click game from 2000 called "The Longest Journey." Two minor characters are lesbians, and one of them talks at length about their relationship--not graphically, but still. It's kind of amusing because the one who does most of the talking has a beautiful voice and a British accent, and she's the femme. When the partner is finally introduced, she has short hair, a manly voice with a different (Southern U.S.?) accent, and is wearing overalls, from what I remember.
Anyway, the point is that I'm straight and didn't find it offensive or forced. Their little story was pretty funny and added some color and realism to the game. That was 17 years ago, and the LBGT content didn't seem to hurt the game's popularity. Ultimately, it probably depends on the skill of your writers.
But I am presenting this technical option to show you a mirror, so you can see that it comes down to what you (really) want with the game. Try make the best game! That LGBT reality distortion field could be a very effective ingredient of an excellent game, a force, while at the same time teaching about preaching, without taking sides. 