Rsync has a number of flags which control what it will look at and what it will copy over to the destination.  Most often the "-a" flag is used which is the "Archive" flag, this is probably what you want.  run rsync with the "-av" flags and have it do a first run against the data you want backed up.  The next time it runs it'll do a block checksum of the file, and only copy over the parts which have been modified on existing files, copy new files over, and remove files which are no longer there.  Check the "-a" options section on:
If the real question is "I want to do incremental backups over rsync", there are a few options available. I use Dirvish:
Since it uses rsync it also saves network bandwidth (and hence time) where the changes are very small. It also works if you tar and sneakernet a locally created dirvish image first, if you have lots of files and a slow link.
The first run will be BandWidth intensive, the following runs will most likely be processor intensive but use little Bandwidth compared to the initial run.  Unless you have a lot of churn over your data set.
rsync doesn't do 'incremental', it's more like 'differential'.  it doesn't transfer changes (which assume some knowledge of a prior run), it transfers differences (by comparing the source with the target files)
Rsync doen't care how you got the files in the source, or the destination directories, it's only going to copy the changes between the two, unless you add flags to do something different.
Restoring is easy because it gives you snapshots: it uses hardlinks to give you complete snapshots while saving space where a file is identical. Internally, it uses rsync's --link-dest option:
If you want to log what was changed you can use the "--log-file" option.  All in all something like this sounds like what you want:
rsync does not log any data, it checks file modification timestamps and then content. if you upload by ftp first it'll be fine - rsync will not re-transmit all data but probably will go through all the content and fix timestamps. but there will be no huge transfer again.