You can get this behavior however if you get what I call 'vlan bleed'.  If you have two switch ports connected back-to-back, but on different vlans you could see this behavior.  
The switch is a stack of three Netgear GS748TS managed switches. The switch activity lights all flash in sync continuously, which seems wrong too.
Switches are supposed to only send traffic to a system if it's intended for that system. Ours appears not to: if I run "tcpdump not host myhostname", I can see lots of packets that are clearly non-broadcast (ssh, nfs) travelling between other hosts. How can I prevent this? I think it may be causing poor performance (we have heavy NFS use; if it's coming out of all the switch ports, that can't be good).
CPU over-utilization can be responsible for poor performance, but i almost certainly think, not for packet storms like this. 
You may not be seeing what I'm going to describe, the there's a chance that you are. I've seen the symptoms you're talking about on several low-end and middle-of-the-road Netgear and Linksys switches. The switches I've seen this "crazy" behaviour happen with have been in place for awhile, working fine, but begin to flood frames out all ports. The call I normally get is "the network is slow", and subsequent bandwidth monitoring usually locates a single switch that has "gone crazy", often with its activity lights on solid, pumping out large quantities of "bogus" traffic (sometimes made up of legitimate traffic, other times seemingly random garbage).
Switches make all of their decisions based on the vlan tag (if you're using them) and mac address.  If you are getting flooding then you need to look at why the switch isn't building an accurate mac-address-table.
Normally, a switch should not fail back into 'hub' mode unless you have overloaded its MAC address table (normally around 8,000+ MAC addresses, but check the make/model detail).  You can check the number of MAC addresses on a given Cisco switch with this command:  
It seems like this problem has gotten worse in the last few years w/ no-name Ethernet switches, Linksys, and Netgear switches. I don't know if there's some silicon in common that has an issue amongst the problem switches I've seen or not. (We're recommending our Customers purchase Dell PowerConnect switches and haven't seen these kinds of problems with their switches-- yet.)
If you have to sniff a packet that does not belong to you in a switched LAN. What you do is generate lots of fake arp requests, and overload the ARP table in the switch. Once the ARP table is overloaded, switch operates in a default HUB mode.
Look at your mac table for ports with more than one address that are not uplinks to another switch.  You can also follow the MAC address of one of the devices that should be unicast through the MAC tables of your switches.
A device with multiple network cards could also be bridging vlans together.  Microsoft had a 'feature' to bridge network cards so your wireless and hard-wired networks would be bridged for instanance. 
I like Zypher's suggestion about checking on CPU utilization, but I'd also consider breaking up the "stack" (on these particular switches I don't know if a "stack" operates as a single logical unit or not) and testing each switch individually.