If in your case SELECTs are fast to do and there's not much write activity to DB, MyISAM is not bad at all. But if you have even moderate write activity and some long-running SELECTs, please be aware that MyISAM only supports table-level locks. During a slow SELECT all write activity will be queued and that can pretty soon lead to all kind of nasty problems.
Also make sure that whatever the storage engine is in use, it is properly tuned. For MyISAM key_buffer_size and table_cache are the most important values to tune, for InnoDB the first thing to adjust is innodb_buffer_pool_size.
If we are talking about actual locks, as in deadlock / timeout, you should check for any suspicious LOCK TABLES command.
My (MySQL) database is experiencing intermittent lock timeouts. I do not have a root cause yet and we do not have any recommendations yet. Back in the day I would have to reindex my SQL Server and Oracle indexes because they needed it. No one ever talks about that and MySQL.
But both of the storage engines have their own gotchas: for example, only MyISAM supports full-text indexing and InnoDB table space does not shrink, so in an actively updated table where there's lots of deletes/updates/inserts going on, you need to dump to table contents and suck them back in every now and then.
InnoDB supports row-level locks, transactions and multiversioning, so even a heavily mixed read/write operations will not slow it down nearly as much as MyISAM. 
You will also want to get on and run "show full processlist;" to make sure that it's not something deliberately explicitly locking the table, like some sort of backup.
You should not need to reindex MySQL except in cases of corruption from a crash or sudden power-off.  If you're having locking issues, you may want to look into converting your MyISAM tables (or at least the tables with the biggest lock contention issues) to InnoDB.  It requires a bit more RAM, but it supports row-level locking instead of just table-level locking (among many other improvements).  
As already noted, the storage engine selected is the main factor affecting MySQL's performance. Should you use MyISAM or InnoDB, that depends on your workload.
Locks timeout? MySQL is pretty well designed in this regard, especially if you use the InnoDB engine.