You can also include data population or other scripts with your deployment, and those go under version control as well.  Database objects may be managed by checking in scripts you create or you can use the more intuitive schema view.  All of the dependancies are tracked.  You can manage every aspect of your SQL Server DB under source control, including all of the properties, files and file groups, and permissions.  Great for keeping standards and practices in place.  It has a visual database diff tool, I prefer Red-Gate's implemtation of this feature, but you don't use the graphical compare to create deployments in VS2010 and it's become moot as I've grown comfortable with the MS builds and how much they help me keep my DB projects clean.
Our team uses Visual Studio 2010 Database Projects.  Most of our projects rely on MS Team Foundation Server for source control, which integrates seamlessly, but I found out recently it will work (with only a little pain) on other source systems.  We have one such project on Perforce.  The build and deploy features of VS2010 work very well and can be automated using PowerShell (very useful if for instance you wanted to restore a baseline to test deployments).  Different configurations can be created if for example you want a full or differential deployment target.  
The source control tool is designed to be a replacement of VSS and can integrate with SQL Server Management Studio.
Unfortunately, I cannot compare at this level of depth with other systems for keeping databases under source control. I've worked quite a bit with "developer discipline", but I no longer consider that a system and never want to go back to that. Also had a brief stint using an SSMS plug-in to SVN but that was quite awhile ago. For that we had to use Red-Gate to generate deployment scripts.
DB Ghost is a good tool for versionizing your databases.  Sync, compare, delta, copy, build, script...and it can be run via command line for automated jobs.  
ApexSQL Version, supports Visual Source Safe, Subversion, Team Foundation Server, SourceGear Vault and MSSCCI compliant versioning systems