Remove the administrators from the ACLs and forward changes to the ACL to the log server. It won't stop the event from happening but you will have a definite log of who changed the permissions when and how. 
(3) Procure one of the different network vault types of products, example being Cyber-Ark.  These products are specifically designed for the use-case you are discussing.
But if management has seen the problem and talked to everyone about it, every instance I've been involved with or near has come down to, "We trust these people for a reason, just make sure they're fully aware of the access policies and move on." 
The second option is typically followed by departments without consultation of IT. 10 years ago this drive to protect data from the all-seeing-eye of the presumed-BOFH caused people to put critical data on their workstation's drives and share the directories between each other in the department. These days, this could be something as simple has a shared DropBox folder, Microsoft SkyDrive, or something else along those lines (mmmm, exfiltration of company data to unvetted third parties). 
The SkyDrive option that sysadmin1138 sounded good to me for documents.  The amount of documents that are truly sensitive are usually quite small, and SkyDrive gives you 7 GB for free (2GB file max). For an accounting system, that data should be protected in a real database by some level of encryption, and authentication that would not allow a Windows administrator access.  
(5) Security Control Compensation - beef up your personnel security controls such as adding insurance against a breach of information, adding certain two-person requirements (can be done many different ways), another role (security admin), or more background checking.  More creative options would be including a golden parachute that would kick-in after departure from the company with no breach of information a year after resignation/firing, or more attention given to keeping the admins happy in general via some special perks with ties to these personnel requirements.
This was hilighted when someone from HR itself started a work proceeding, and the IT staff was called in to set up the permissions to block that user from the file locations where the proceedings were documented. Even though such proceedings are confidential from IT, we were specifically invited in to set up the right excludes.
You should be aware that a person with that level of privilege can access data on Windows file shares regardless of the security permissions of the files/folders.  This is due to the privileges that can be conferred in Windows when the "Backup Files and Directories" right is available.  
(4) Place all information inside databases, then use strong encryption to encrypt all database content, or use a full disk encryption product to better control the filesystem access along with (1) and/or (2) above.  Augment this with a policy to disallow cleartext removal of database content and require reports to stay within the database.  The encryption product can include strong encryption modules such as FIPS 140-2, and can be a physical device too, such as a hardware security module (HSM).
The more of these blocks you put in place the more likely you are to have someone stumble on one of them. 
Repeat as needed to cover specific communities of interest.  This will add a new role above the domain admins - enterprise admins that can be further segregated and even subdivided.
For example, you could use a secondary logging system (like Splunk or a Linux syslog server) that only your president / whoever has access to and configure file auditing for your secure directories. 
Once someone has administrative rights all bets are off as far as the security goes. This is exactly why administrators need such a high level of trust - there are always ways around any kind of blocks that can be put in place. 
Without EFS, you may not be able to rely on the file system to guarantee confidentiality, permissions, auditing, or otherwise.   
With that right, someone can simply backup the files, and restore them to another location.  And for extra credit, they could do it as a scheduled task running as system so it would be less than obvious during an audit.  If that were not an option, they may have access to the backup system, and could restore the data from there to a location that may not be audited.  
Both have their problems, of course. The first method is what my prior two jobs at large organizations elected to follow. The reasoning was basically: