DD-WRT may be supported for that device and it can easily handle well over 2-3 users.  It's a third party, linux-based firmware you can install on your router that makes it far more stable than the stock.
c) router not configured to limit - uncontrolled people bittorrenting (ton of open sockets) the crap out of the router (which is known to lock up almost all home/small biz routers due to ultra high throughput without config changes).
The WRT54G's only limitations IMHO is 100mbit if you want 1GB+ pay more.  If you are fine with 100mb (for internet access!) then WRT54G is perfect.
You could use DD-WRT or Tomato, but in my (limited) experience they're a bit hackish. What you want is a more small business level product, such as this DLink. If you want to go full-on professional, you could get a Cisco but expect to pay considerably more.
I don't understand how you would 'outgrow' a linksys WRT54G in your situation (2-3).  If you have CONSTANT crashes, you either have:
Once installed, it's just as easy to use as the stock firmware, so it's pretty much set and forget.  You'll have to download the correct firmware based on your exact WRT54G version (v1.0 - v8.2).
Just some food for thought, don't dismiss the Linksys WRT54G, its a great little router, thats why there is such large community support for it.
I have run the Linksys WRT54G with 29 people (small office env), I used OpenWRT on it successfully and have had no problems, it was stable as a rock, complete with full QOS funcationality and a 10mbit inbound/1.5mbit outbound connection.
If you have an old machine laying around a Smoothwall / pfSense / Monowall firewall might prove to supply better QOS with the current Linksys router acting as a switch (or dump the router and use a dedicated OTB switch instead)
Myself I ran the WRT54G as the gateway & internet traffic QOSing.  With 2 16x1GB switches for network (LAN) traffic.  I just had one of the 16xers plug into the router for outgoing/incoming internet traffic.  That way nobody was limited by 100mbits until they came off the LAN.