You could code something up with the Azure Active Directory PowerShell Module to dump data out of your Azure tenant AD and provision users in your own Active Directory, but I cannot image that you're going to get password hashes back out of Azure. That's going to leave a sticky problem of passwords.
Also, make sure you read this, as it includes how to change the authority of your directory: Directory synchronization and source of authority
Microsoft is, ultimately, who needs to be supporting you on this. I'd engage with sales and support to determine the best way to achieve your business goals, rather than knocking together some awful one-off that ends up doing more harm than good.
I am currently working with an existing Office 365 subscription that needs to have a new instance of Windows Server 2012 R2 in Azure manage the users through Active Directory. The server 2012 VM is brand new and has nothing set up. I understand that when going the opposite way and creating a new 365 account you can simply use the DirSync tool and push your AD users to the 365 cloud.
I have not been able to get any support from MS on this, so I am wondering if anyone has any suggestions on how to get users from the cloud to AD so that I can eventually set up a SSO situation for server users.
Windows Server Essentials role has a limited connector in the Console that has import capabilities. However, it is not possible to use this connector and enable ADFS with O365, you need to switch to AD Connect. 
Typically the way AD -> O365 sync works is that a unique identity value is created for each user in AD, then the user is pushed to O365. Updates are performed using the identity value to match the accounts.
I don't believe Microsoft currently has a solution for what you're looking for. As you've mentioned, this is the opposite of a typical Office 365 deployment. 
In the longer-term, the Azure Active Directory Premium edition with the announced, but not yet available, "Identity Synchronization Tool" with "advanced write-back capabilities" (see http://channel9.msdn.com/Events/TechEd/Europe/2014/CDP-B312) might do what you want, but I get the feeling that this doesn't exactly exist yet.
SMTP matching tells the DirSync tool to initially match based on the primary SMTP address. Further syncs are accomplished using the identity value.