I have not tried the Google Docs option as it is still not supported in my office. However, by printing the file to "ScanSoft PDF Create!" from "Acrobat 9" (prints the entire file to image) and opening the printed file in "Nuance PDF Converter" (it prompted me if I want to make the image file searchable and editable, which I opted to), I was able to have a Word document I can easily copy and paste from. It's not perfect though with only around around 80-90% accuracy. But hey, you still have the original PDF file to compare with and offset those parts that just can't be fixed. Saves time from typing the whole thing. My 2c.
If the document is created from a scanned image, however, the text part is typically created by OCR processing of the image, which can produce rather sorry results, especially if the original is less than optimal for the purpose.
There is a risk that the information won't be retrievable at all. PDF documents are essentially one document overlying another, one simple text, the other a picture. When you copy and paste from the document, you mark the text while looking at the picture, but what is copied to your clipboard is the corresponding piece of the text part.
The bottom line is, if the text part of the document is really bad, there is no way to make it better. Your best bet would be to remove the text part altogether, and have the program redo the OCR process. I think that might be doable from within Acrobat, but I'm not entirely sure.
Depending on the way the document is created, the quality and availability of the text part can differ greatly. If you save a word processor document in PDF format, using Acrobat, Word, a PDF printer driver or any other method, the quality will usually be excellent, since the text file can be created from the text of the original. Some special characters may become distorted, but plain text is usually fine.
I can't say this for sure, but it would explain my observation. And it would indeed allow to make all kinds of encoding when saving combined/reduced files as described in another post here: with Preview you can still get out the text again.
A bad program used to create the PDF, or the wrong settings, might also cause the text part to become completely garbled, as could, perceivably, some kinds of encryption run on the file after it has been created.
The results weren't perfect, but got me 80% of the way there and provide me with enough text that I didn't have to rewrite everything!
One of my users just reported the same issue (PDF was created with Distiller for Windows), that copied text is only garbled text and he couldn’t search inside a document. I tried on my Mac and didn't find any issue. It turned out, that I used Apple’s Preview application, while he used Adobe Reader on his Windows machine. Then I tried Adobe Reader on my Mac an faced the same effect. To me it looks like:
First I thought it would be more logical to encode the embedded font subset as contiguous entries instead of leaving holes inside and using the original character location. But then I realized, that by using an encoding vector to the font subset with original entries, characters which are often used can have less bits set to 1 in their byte and can be compressed in a better way (it may lower the entrophy of the overall text this way).