32 bit applications have been made for a very long time, they are better, they cause less problems and it will be some time before everything works properly with 64 bit OSs and apps. 32 bit apps are compatible with everything and its much easier to install them on everything instead of having to switch.
A 64-bit version doesn't happen by magic if you already have a 32-bit version. The developers still have to build, test and debug the 64-bit version separately and test corner-cases as 'what if the user already has the 32-bit version and tries to install the 64-bit as upgrade on top of it'.
But at the same time many Office plug-ins and other add-on software made by other companies are 32-bit only and they will not work with the 64-bit Office programs. As these plugins are often very important for the users (especially in business settings, my own company Office has 12 of these plugins in Outlook alone and 7 in Word).
Office does have a 64-bit version which is mainly useful for Excel and Access whose 64-bit versions can deal with much larger files.
Support needs to deal with both versions. Many customers who call support can't tell the difference and this will cause confusion.  
Often a 64-bit just doesn't add anything of value to the software. It would do exactly the same thing as the 32-bit version.
I am trying to figure out why 32 bit apps are being installed on Windows 8 64 bit. On my wife's PC, there are a number of 32 bit versions of popular applications that are installed where I would expect 64 bit versions to be used. How does a download page determine which version of Skype, for example, gets downloaded? Same problem with MS-Office and a few others.
The computer was pre-installed by a computer shop or the manufacturer and they just installed the 32-bit version. Maybe because there arent any 64 bit ones, like mentioned in the previous post, they dont have a license for the 64-bit ones (sometimes the license is different) or they just decided.
Microsoft even recommends using the 32-bit Office unless you have a real reason to use the 64-bit version of Office (like humongous Excel spread-sheets).
One of the reasons that I found is that I had installed 32 bit versions many years ago and the internal update process updates the version installed and does not suggest or automatically install a 64 bit version when it becomes available.
So a 64-bit version isn't "free": All in all making a 64-bit version doesn't make much sense under those conditions.