After looking at the dsl modem and connection that i tore apart :) HEHEHE they actually seem to be using the cable connection that say a brighthouse timewarner company would use the wiring that runs to the pole is 1 wire and its been running to my house for more than 10 years.. It looks like they left that alone took it, plugged it into there converter type box and voila DSL. I wouldnt be suprised if brighthouse has a monopoly on the market there huge in fl.. The only competitor is at&t and they only offer DSL which is stuck at 800KBPS which i think is BS, they say they dont get the same bandwith because of wiring, its just 2 strand thin copper wire. To me that and cable use the same gauge wiring it looks like... But for your router you should be able to rig it to recieve signal You would just have to configure your router by checking your I.P. and having certain ISP info.... I know theyre saying they dont use the same language but they do... 
Article on how dsl works... They use a Fiber optic cable which is the same as the cable companies its just they use different methods of sending the packets, the fiber cable is broken down and distributed to an entire neighborhood which services up to 200 some odd houses which then goes to every house whether they have service or not.
Best thing to do is drop DSL screw Cable, try satellite internet Most places D.L. N U.L. speeds crap on both cable and dsl! Good luck hopefully I answered more questions than i raised lol
AT&T’s popular U-verse system uses VDSL2. It sends video signals by fiber to a neighborhood DSLAM and then distributes the signal to homes over the installed UTP wiring. The U-verse system provides cable TV-like service with IPTV as well as VoIP and Internet access."
In all dont feel bad for asking a question. If you dont get an answer thats very satisfying people just havent did any research or dont know in general so they can eat a big fat one. lol. But if you were tryna splice it make like a converter type thing like coax to ethernet idk how its setup but most likely wouldnt work. however tele signal to coax into the cable modem I think so its more a question of how to configure the router.
I know theres already an answer to it but I think you can, I do a little bit of network admin stuff myself and really your questions a bit vague but i may have answer to both...