I don't know how many servers (or how big they are) but a general purpose APC 1500 tower is probably sufficient for your needs, unless you run a rack of equipment. 
You need to handle very short power spikes and power dropouts. Ones less catastrophic than blackouts and lightning strikes, but ones that may be very common. There's a continuum between cleaning up the waveform and protecting against surges and blackoutes. I suspect power supplies will last onger if they are given cleaner power, and that random crashes will be less frequent. I suspect that most UPSes don't protect against an ugly waveform. This is speculation and guessing. But if a scope can make me nauseous, it might damage your power supply.
I don't know why  your equipment died, but I can tell you that UPS's have saved my business continuity multiple times. 
I'm in an area with variable power and daily brownouts, and lost a lot of gear like you. I added a 2u APC rackmount UPS, big thing, and put nearly everything on it. It was wildly successful. The UPS would go on and off all day long, even when I could see no other evidence of power fluctuation. No more hardware losses. So I went and bought more of these big UPSs and put all my stereo gear on one, and other electronic clusters on another. The damage to my gear stopped.
In my home I've got... five computers in various states of use (monthly through to continuous), and I've lost power supplies for all of them, including the laptop, generally in lumps (several components around the same time).  These losses have also included other bits and bobs, including a hard drive.
I didn't buy brand new APC UPSs, I waited till they had sales and I bought reconditioned units. That kept the cost down.
It also has voltage sensitivity settings. This was useful for me as it was hooked to a generator, and without lowering sensitivity, the generator was not able to output a normal enough signal for the UPSes to cope. 
You want to filter out voltage spikes caused by lightning strikes and by normal fluctuations on the power grid. Perhaps these are two different problems to solve. Whatever the solution, some areas of the world have frequent lightning strikes. It may not be enough to have insurance against this, you may need real protection if you want to stay in business. I don't know how to protect against a nearby lightning strike, but I know they are common in certain parts of the world and can not be ignored. In the Tampa Bay area, it is common for businesses to be destroyed by a nearby lightning strike.
You need to consider whether your business needs require automatic transfer from the UPS to the generator. It's surprisingly cheap. For many businesses, a single event can cover the cost.,
You need to handle a multi-day power outage. Diesel generators and fuel contracts that provide guarantees even in a widespread emergency.
You want to clean up the waveform provided by the power company. I don't know how important this is, but it's not something you can totally ignore.
You need to handle a brief (less than 10 minute) power loss. It happens. It's common. This is handled with what people normally call UPSes. I can't state whether UPSes provide the other features I speak of as well.
Bottom line - I think you need something to smooth your electricity. I don't think it is a marketing lie, but I think you need more than the consumer versions of UPSs available.
Yes, yes, yes. But I don't know what to recommend you buy, because power is complicated stuff, vendors of low-end equipment just lie, vendors of high-end equipment don't give adequate explanations.
In one of my boxen, both my power supply and network card died while in overnight hibernation  - why?  
Do I need some kind of power conditioner?  Those power-boards with surge protection, that's just a marketing lie, right?  And a cheap UPS isn't going to filter the electricity any, is it?  So what do I do, spend up big?