Having this problem for the first time in many years, I contacted the others company's admin for some explanations:
Should a Mailserver reject a mail, if it is send via another — but authenticated — SMTP server, or would that lead to many problems?
Consider this: Mailserver B wants to send mail to Mailserver A. In this context, B acts like a client. Every information given could be faked. How should A know that B did a lot of good work to prevent spammers, like authentication, virus checking? Should it trust the mail headers? Or the information it get's during smtp conversation? Not very safe.
You ask "Should a Mailserver reject a mail, if it is send via another — but authenticated — SMTP server".
One important verification is double-checking IP-addresses and name resolutions. A perfect match (even in the EHLO/HELO context, as others noted) is very important if you want best acceptance.
Again me: that is not common, as in many networks you have to use their SMTP-server, i.e. I know several university networks and in several countries people, citizen and foreigners,  are forced by the internet providers to use special servers,...
You should certainly look for another MSP as this admin is potentially blocking business critical emails.  Sending an email for a domain that is not the mailservers domain is called Relaying.  Open relays (by which anyone can send email from regardless of source) are blacklisted pretty quickly as they are often used by spammers.  Nowadays relaying occurs by verifying the source IP.  This allows admins to set up servers as needed (typically send only mail relays that forward to the main corporate mailserver to get mail past the firewall).  The admin has some of his facts straight in that relayed mail is, in general, more likely to be suspect.  A more typical response is to weight the spam headers or use greylisting.  Simply blocking the mail, in my opinion, is a denial of service.
He told me, that I send the mails with SMTP-server, that has another server name than my email address' domain name. I answered that that is absolutely legal, as I don't have SMTP-Server declared for all my accounts, but all my SMTP-server are authenticated servers, so that should be absolutely ok.
But that said this is different from the requirement of your admin that a mail addresses domain should match the hostname of the sending server. This is overdone, at least as SPF and other methods are not used by a majority. He might add some SPAM weight headers or flag otherwise but not totally reject it.
The admin responded, that this is not true, that it is absolutely common to block email, if they are send via another SMTP-server to prevent spam.
The admin told me, that he can't understand my examples and that in my mentioned cases people are always forced to either use other mail addresses or web mailers. Additionally he wrote a mail to the person he thought of as my boss (actually we are partners), that I am telling terrible lies and would propagate securities flaws and should be fired.
Now we moved our web site and the MTA to a company that we considered to be more professional. But I realized, that none of my emails arrived my colleagues — sometimes I got an error mail, sometimes not. The error indictated, that my SMTP server was faulty and that it need to be fixed.  