You have the option of not connecting both power supplies to the same UPS. Connect one to the power mains and observe the behavior.
So, basically I am testing and diagnosing my UPS's as well as the power sources (PSU) of my server. For that purpose I am powering down the server "the hard way", by unplugging it from the wall as to simulate a power loss. 
Do not unplug your UPS from the wall. I asked a similar question 9 years ago on this site and got the following answer from Evan Anderson:
So if you are on a switched outlet, switch it off. If you're not on a switched outlet, consider flipping power to the breaker so that ground circuit stays connected.
If you have an amber light on the either of the power supplies: shown on the SID or on the actual physical units, there's a problem.
Check the firmware on your system. G7 servers are old now, but by running Ubuntu, you're probably missing the HP reporting and management agents (they're optimized for RHEL/CentOS/VMware/Windows). You can download the full set of firmware for this model using this HP bootable DVD.
Again, I am trying to determine what power sources are defective (that is, UPS is ok but server dies anyway when unplugged). The UPS's I can test by their own as to avoid trying this method with the server, but I can't figure out how to test if my PSU's can handle fluctuations and spikes without actually trying them on a live server. Any guidance is greatly appreciated.
You can also log into the server's ILO to check the Integrated Management Log. If you lose power suddenly, there may be an entry in the log indicating something like:
This leads me to my question: Is there an alternate way of performing these tests as to minimize the chances of damaging the server or its parts? Or there is no problem in doing what I am currently doing? 
As for your actual problem, which is that during brownouts/blackouts/surges you still lose your servers upstream of your UPS there are a few things that might cause this:
The server in question: HP ProLiant DL380 G7 server, with Intel Xeon. I also have it with RAID 1 level on its HDD's. It has Ubuntu 16.04.3 LTS running on its SSD's.
As for disconnecting your servers by pulling the plugs, you shouldn't be doing any physical damage to the machines by doing that. You may corrupt non-battery-backed RAID arrays, or disrupt in-flight writes which can cause messy file systems and data loss - but your physical servers should be fine.
This I have been doing like the way described, and has helped me find which UPS's are not working properly, as well as what PSU's need change (if the server shuts down then something needs change, else everything is ok). However, I am starting to worry that constantly unplugging my server and "killing" it the hard way may cause some damage to it or my data. 