A buffer overflow more often than not result in account compromise for the user running the daemon in question.  Buffer overflows are sometimes Denial of Service but typically not and often end up being system level compromise after further research is done.  If actually an issue, this can be a big deal.  I would rank it between medium and high depending where it touches my infrastructure and the size of the footprint.
The result from your PCI scanning service is likely a false positive, though it can be hard to tell. Chances are they matched the version number of your SMTP program, it usually is announced on connection to port 25, and checked that product and version number against a list of known-vulnerable software. And found a match. 
I have found with Scan Alert (now McAfee) rarely produce false positives.  Unless your Approved Scanner Vendor has a history of false positives, I would assume that it is a legitimate vulnerability until you prove otherwise.
You might be unlucky with it being CPanel (and not using standard repositories if I remember rightly).
Backporting of security patches is one of the main benefits of using a Linux with a support contract. Centos is the same thing, but you don't get to call in about anything you just get security patches.
Wait which error are you getting, and what scanner is being used against your mail server? eEye Retina? Nessus?
Those are two completely different scanner findings... whitelisting the scanner IP in Exim would actually make your problem worse, not better. If you whitelist the IP of the scanner, it will think it can open relay through SMTP, which is a common problem with SMTP servers that spammers take advantage of.
...later in your question you say "I have tried white listing the IP in Exim but the scanner still gives the server and says the server is vulnerable to open relay."
Just an extension to @sysadmin1138 but you need to find the CVE number they provided for the vulnerability (likely CVE-200something-numbers). Google for that vulnerability and click on any link that says "RedHat", "CentOS" or even at a push "Fedora". That page will tell you if it was resolved, and in which versions it was resolved. Check your version of Exim against this and then explain your findings to the ASV who will mark it was a false positive.  
Since you are on Centos, the thing you need to do is go through the entire revision history of the SMTP service's RPM releases looking for a changelog that specifies security fixes. Chances are very good that RedHat has backported the buffer overflow vulnerability into the older revision, but you need to backtrack to be certain. Once that's done, you can flag this as a false positive.