You could try Folder Guard and ask someone to password protect the directory with a strong password that could resist anybody's temptation to crack it:
However, you could still use proxies to access those sites. Try your will first, that is by far the most efficient way to stop you from visiting sites you don't really want to spend time on.
I have a fix you can try.  Create for yourself a new user account with 'Administrator group' permissions.  Then log back in as the original Administrator. View the folder properties of the windows\system32\drivers\etc folder and change the access priviledges to FULL CONTROL for the Administrator, ALLOW read for new user account, DENY all other functions for the new user account.
Why not set yourself up with an account with fewer privileges and only use the admin account when you actually need those admin powers? Set up the admin account with a ridiculously hard to remember password (long and random). Write the password down, and then put that password behind lock and key (a safe?). Even better would be to give the password to a trusted friend and make the friend read you the password over the phone on the occasions you need admin rights.
Of course, there's also commercial software out there specifically for blocking access to portions of the Web, and it is usually something where it makes sense to make someone else have the password that controls the blocking software.
If this is a self-control issue, the idea is to make the effort of overcoming your web-site block sufficient that you will catch yourself and resist temptation before you go through the process of getting your admin password, etc.
From then on you use the new user account having full administrative priviledges, but are denied the ability to change the HOSTS file and it's parent folder.
Now get a trusted friend to login to the Adminstrator account and change the password to something difficult (have him write it down and keep it) while not in your presence.  Then logout.  Instruct your friend to never give you the password unless he is with you in person.  Chances are you will never need your friend to login again.  If you are really sensitive about the matter this can all be accomplished without ever explaining why.