The claimed battery life is usually specified for a workload that consists mostly of browsing or 'word processing', with the display dimmed to minimum and almost no additional applications running.
If you're experiencing very bad battery life early in the machine's life, take it into an Apple store and explain the problem. In both my cases, the Genius I spoke with replaced the battery for free then gave me tips on how to extend the new battery's life (which I'm passing on here).
I have a pre-unibody MPB 15", which I've had for three years. In that time, I've gone through 3 batteries (about one per year); fortunately for me, Apple has replaced the batter twice at no cost to me (other than my Applecare warranty).
After speaking to Apple 'geniuses' a couple of times, and once more two nights ago, you need to fully drain the battery at least once a month (run it from a full charge to 0% (where it turns completely off and goes into hibernation), then charge it back up to 100% without unplugging the power cord. If you can't 'cycle' the battery in that way, as they call it, I was also told to try and keep the battery between 20% and 70% charge at all times. Setting up an event in iCal to remind you is also helpful.
The number of cycles and reported battery health also influence what your battery's maximum life can be. Over time, batteries lose the ability to store as much charge as when they were new (this is a limitation of how most rechargeable batteries are designed) and if they are not used regularly (computer unplugged) the health goes down even faster. You can use coconutBattery to see what the state of your battery is. If the health seems to be particularly low, you may check back at the Apple Store to see if you're eligible for a battery replacement.
Again, your usage will affect battery life (duration of charge) and watching videos, listening to music, extensive wireless communication (web browsing or transferring files over the network), gaming or anything CPU intensive or spins the hard disc or optical drive often will drain the batter much faster than, say, writing a paper in Word.
As a final note, I'm assuming from your question that you own the 17" MBP with the integrated battery for which the 8-9 hr life is claimed; older models have a lower capacity battery that gets around 5 hours depending on workload.
Display brightness is one of the biggest consumers of battery power. Video playback taxes the GPU and draws additional power (and if it's Flash video, which is a notorious power drainer, you can expect this to go down even faster) and so do the speakers. All these factors combine to reduce battery life.