Qmail uses a single hostname and IP address for the sending IP/Host but for hosts with multiple domains/IPs there are two issues:
I am very, very new to unix/linux so this does make me a bit nervous but I am the only person who can make the change and it is one our company "HAS" to have. Any ideas?
Compiling from source and patching is slightly more advanced but if you are standardized on QMAIL and need this feature, you are not going to have many options unless you want to pay someone else to do it for you.
Some additions to Warner's advice (sorry but I don't have enough reputation to use the comment function):
The definitive source for QMAIL's official distribution is Qmail.org, which is where you could acquire netqmail.  netqmail is QMAIL packaged with recommended patches that were commonly applied, as there had not been an official release in a while.
There are numerous patches linked on QMAIL's web site, which change the interface binding behavior.  I have successfully implemented this patch in a production environment before, which allows different domains to use different IPs.
Our pages are written in PHP so we are using the mail() function. While our email goes out to everybody, several enterprise email domains reject our email because it shows a different originating IP (our primary server IP and domain) than the domain we list in the 'from' address. This is not modifiable. Every domain we own of course does have its own IP as well underneath our primary server IP. 
First off I do not have netqmail installed so I'll need to find another source, but also I am completely unfamiliar with applying patches to qmail. Will I lose email services if I patch? Is it a simple apply and use process? Will my existing email accounts and data be restored after the patch?
This is typically addressed on the network layer, where all outbound SMTP would be source NAT'd to the same IP.
Your existing users and e-Mail should not be affected but if your QMAIL installation has other patches, such as those that allow authentication data to be stored in a database, you may need further patches to duplicate your existing functionality.  If you are using "stock" QMAIL 1.03 it should be rather straight forward.
We have a system running CentOS 5 with Plesk 8.6 and Qmail running. Our primary domain is hosted through Media Temple. When Plesk and Qmail are hosted on a single Dedicated Virtual server, it reads the primary server IP and domain and reports that when sending emails from the system.
I have the same problem, i.e. I have a multi-homed host (6 IPs) and several domains binding to each IP.
Changing your MTA's behavior will likely be impacting in some way but how that impact affects your services is going to depend on your deployment plan.  If nothing else, QMAIL will need to be restarted, which will briefly impact delivery.
Plesk comes up with updates constantly and some of the updates are applied to Plesk's patches to qmail so one has to make sure nothing else breaks; if Qmail did this problem would not exist.