The throughtput it only about 10MB/s which is about 20% of what it was on the physical server. Thats pretty bad but this is only a bandaid solution - I will be reinstalling everything when Windows 2008 R2 is made available.
I take it that you don't want to / can't physically attach the "D:" and "E:" "drives" to the server computer hosting the VM.
If this is goign to be a short-term thing, the easiest thing I think you could do would be to install an iSCSI target onto a computer that can host these disks and export them as iSCSI targets. On your VM, you could install an iSCSI initiator, connect to those targets, and assign them the proper drive letters. Do note that I'm talking about actually loading the initiator inside the VM-- not in the hypervisor itself. The iSCSI traffic would be coming from the VM (and, as such, you might need to make a physical network connection to create a dedicated iSCSI network and then expose that connections as a dedicated virtual NIC in the VM).
If this is going to be a long-term thing I would convert the disks to VMDK disks and be done with the physical disks. If you get the whole iSCSI thing going you could just add some virtual disks to the VM in addition to the iSCSI targets and copy the contents from the iSCSI targets to the virtual disks.
You haven't explicitly mentioned which product, so I'm going to assume the tag of "vmware-server" is accurate.  I'm also assuming you are running your old server as a VM on top of your new server install.
What you use for an iSCSI target shouldn't matter too much, so long as it can present entire disks as targets w/o requiring any changes to the disks. I think Openfiler can do that, but I'm not 100% sure. 
The feature you're looking for is known Raw Device Mapping (Server 1, ESX, ESXi) or SCSI Passthrough in Server 2.
I used a demo of StarWind Enterprise as the iSCSI target; reason being it was the only version of StarWind that seemed to let me export the entire disc ("Disc Bridge mode"). The software seemed pretty good, esp considering all the alternatives I tried (iSCSI CAKE etc) would just cause the windows iSCSI initiator to hang.