Anti-Virus software might be rather unlikely to detect such things, since such interaction with hardware might be rather specific to hardware models.  That means that there might not be a universal way to perform a standardized check for such problems.  That may be why Mikko Hypponen, from the F-Secure anti-virus software, discussed "a spectacular failure for our company, and for the antivirus industry in general."  "The truth is, consumer-grade antivirus products can’t protect against targeted malware created by well-resourced nation-states with bulging budgets."  (Source: Wired: Why Antivirus Companies Like Mine Failed to Catch some malware)
Wikipedia's article on “Host protected area” says “Some NSA exploits uses HPA[5] for application persistence.”  Based on that statement (assuming that was is written on Wikipedia is actually true), this would mean that devices have been infected, allowing malware to persist even if the entire hard drive's normal data area is wiped.  When the device is started up, during the time when the BIOS tries to communicate with various hardware, even before the operating system loads, the device firmware could execute malicious instructions that may subvert even the process of wiping a hard drive and then re-installing the operating system.
So, can it happen?  Absolutely.  Is it happening?  Experts seem to indicate that this does happen in high profile situations where governments are willing to invest serious resources into making things like that happen.  How often does this sort of thing happen with more widespread malware that is likely to affect an end user's system?  That answer may be quite hard to tell, but some abilities tend to spread over time, as software gets shared and additional malicious people keep learning.  The capabilities being used by active thieves improve, causing the correct answer to be gloomier next week compared to the situation from last week.gloomier than the answer last week.
The "Host protected area" can contain sectors that a hard drive may use to remap bad sectors into.  This may be a section of the hard drive that is only accessible through specific software, and is typically not accessible by most software typically used (as part of an operating system).  For instance, although hdparm might see this in Linux, common software like fdisk might be completely unaware of this disk space.