Q2. There is no reason why multihoming wouldn't work in IPv6 as well as IPv4. That said, pfSense does not have a fully-supported release that properly handles IPv6. The current version of pfSense is 2.0x. Once 2.1 is released, pfSense will have good IPv6 support and will include multihoming.
Q1. You can install a router/firewall that supports multihoming. In terms of free software, pfSense fits the bill. http://www.pfsense.org/. The pfSense docs refer to this as Multi-WAN. http://doc.pfsense.org/index.php/Multi-WAN_2.0
The advantage is that you can use the entire bandwidth provided by both the providers while still having a fail over option for reliability. 
I've used OpenWRT with Multiwan (http://wiki.openwrt.org/doc/uci/multiwan) for some time at home to multihome between my DSL and Cable ISP. It worked quite nicely. I wouldn't advice it as a corporate solution, but it's ok for SOHO and home setups.
What I have found is that a small number of web apps do not work when you are multihomed. The web apps are usually financial sites, like banks. For some reason, web app programmers sometimes think it is OK to test security on the basis of IP address. For users who need this access, you can reserve an IP address for their computer, and create a "LAN rule" in pfSense to always use a certain gateway and not the other for that IP address. 
An application should be smart enough to change connection (pick another SA/DA pair) when the current connection fails. It isn't. In the mean time our recommendation is to set the lifetime of the failing link's address prefix to 0, meaning that new connections will not use that address.
You could setup a remote server/VPS in a reliable data center and then you could setup VPN tunnels from your router to the remote server over each ISP. Now your router at home could route packets over these tunnels based on a bandwidth ratio, and then the remote server can route the traffic between the rest of the internet. 
We have an implementation in OpenWRT. But it can also be implemented reasonably well on any router supporting policy based routing.
The network uses source address dependent routing to forward the traffic on to the correct exit. (Otherwise BCP38 (ingress filtering) would have dropped a packet sent with ISP B's source address to ISP A). See http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-troan-homenet-sadr-01
In IPv6 multi-homing with provider aggregated addresses, each host in the network will get one address prefix from each of the providers. The host stack/application's source address selection (RFC6724) and choice of SA/DA pair (RFC6555) determines which exit is used.
The disadvantage is that you'll incur additional cpu, storage and bandwidth costs for the remote server.
I.e the host/application's choice of source address picks which exit link is used. Various implementations do this in various ways, and none do it very well at the moment.