HOW TO GET & RESTORE A CONFIG - The menu item "diagnostics->backup&restore" will get you a copy of your current config downloaded through your browser and also lets you save, modify and re-upload (restore) it any time you like. You can restore any config back to the same router, or to a "bare metal" or "clean install", or onto any other install of pfSense of the same version or later, and this will restore all your settings and data as well. 
As a fallback or if paranoid, if you've backed up your config locally to a hard drive, you can always wipe and reinstall pfSense on the router if you hopelessly screw up. After first reboot, restore your old config and it should come back to being exactly as it was. One limitation - reinstall gets the latest versions of your packages off the net, so if those have changed then you might need to check your packages are installed as expected. But their config will be as you had it, when you've done that.
pfSense uses ordinary XML for its config files, so you can copy and paste "chunks" between different saved configs very easily using any text editor if you are careful what you cut/paste. 
Explanation - pfSense stores its current active configuration in an array called $config. The interfaces data is unsurprisingly held in a subarray of $config called $config['interfaces']. print_r() is a command to recursively print the contents of an array or variable in a human-readable format. So what this will do, is to dump the current "interfaces" section of the config to your screen, without the XML surrounding it.  You might find it useful to know. You can also print_r($config); to show the config, or similar for any other part of it, which can help if you need to check where things are mentioned or just for curiosity. 
Alternatively, you can directly access the config in the GUI itself, although this needs some PHP basics. Go to "diagnostics->command prompt", and in the bottom section for PHP command line, type or paste this (including the final semi-colon):