What might be causing this very annoying issue, and what might I do to fix it, short of reformatting?
I have a Windows Experience base of 7.5 (I just re-ran it), 7.7 in desktop and gaming graphics, and Skyrim still runs fine. I ran an Intel chipset update and re-installed my Catalyst drivers (I uninstalled them first), and I don't have any available Windows Update. I've also re-installed both Chrome and Flash, and I've disabled all of my Chrome extensions. Nothing has helped.
More details on plug-in type here: http://acrobatninja.blogspot.co.uk/2013/02/flash-player-in-acrobat-family.html
Occasionally, mouse acceleration can cause reduced cursor tracking speed in Chrome. The reason it seems to kick in when you've got Flash content running is probably because Flash Player settings has an option to Enable hardware acceleration. Historically I suppose it's because of the prevalence of Flash games where mouse acceleration could be handy, but can cause some of these side-effects.
This sounds like a problem with enabled mouse acceleration. Go from Control Panel to Mouse Properties, select the Motion tab and uncheck Disable acceleration in games if it's enabled.
I recently upgraded to Windows 7 Ultimate (without reinstalling, an actual upgrade) and now I'm experiencing some really annoying mouse lag in Chrome. It seems to happen most often when there is a Flash element on the page, though that's not always the case.
Check which version of the plug-in you have installed in Chrome.  For Chrome and Firefox you need the NPAPI version. (click details button top-right on plug-ins page).  PPAPI may appear if flash was installed via ie download - this was my problem. To fix - browse to Flash download page using Chrome browser download and re-install flash.
It does seem to only occur with certain versions - I recall there being similar instances with a particular 18.x version of Chrome, so a rollback is an option, but try disabling mouse acceleration first before resorting to a downgrade.
Lag associated with every mouseover event fixed on my ageing D620 Win7Ult64 (no GPU): go to ABOUT:FLAGS or chrome://flags and set GPU compositing from Default to Disabled