One doesn't need to be a "vim guru" to tell you that you simply need to learn the Vim way. That's what you need to do whenever you pick up a new tool, anyway. Don't you?
Vim's cursor is always on a character cell. As you surmised, that is by design. It can't really be changed, even as an option, because so much of Vim's behavior depends on that characteristic. The best approach is to accept it and adapt your editing habits accordingly.
That said, there is a setting that might help you. A new setting of the 'virtualedit' option was added in Vim 7: onemore. This allows the cursor to move to one position past the end of the line so that you can move past the end of the line and type i to insert a character at the end of the line. See
From this and your previous knowledge of i and $ I suppose you can find the right way to enter insert mode before the first character of a line.
Vim's power is partly derived from its very well designed commands and motions and text-objects. If you don't want to learn how to use these things what's the point of emulating it in the first place.
That's how Vim and Sublime Text 2's vintage mode work. The underscore (in vintage) and the rectangle (in vim) cursors are on a character and everything cascades from this basic rule. If you decide to replace this cursor by a blinking vertical bar the cursor will still be considered by ST2/vintage/vim to be on a character but its visual state will be different. I don't think such a situation is workable.
The best way to learn its basics (and ST2's vintage mode's basics with some limits) is to open Terminal.app and launch vimtutor. Give it a try, do it a couple of times and you will stop being annoyed by Vim's eccentricities.
If you don't like Vim's default behaviour, why did you go through the (relative) pain of enabling Sublime Text 2's "vintage mode"? This feature is a honey pot for Vim users to lure them into trying ST2, not just another exotic way to use it.
The $ command still moves to the actual end of the line, however, so you may want to use this mapping as well:
To solve your immediate problem with using $i<right> to enter insert mode after the end of a line: the right way to do it is to type A.