Soon not even that will be enough.  I've heard of malware that will find an EEPROM chip on your motherboard and over-write it with it's own firmware.  The new firmware will duplicate the functionality of the previous firmware, but also have a copy of the virus waiting to install when that code is invoked.  So you could completely reformat your hard drive and still be infected.
PrevX (which was free to download and scan - you had to pay for removal) only gave some kind of generic name for the infection but I decided to throw my £20 quid at them as a last resort because:
c)  IIRC, they had some deal where if PrevX didn't remove the infection they promised to personally investigate (like remoting onto your machine or something) - and was it a refund too?
b)  Some prevx fellas were providing some extremely active and knowledgeable support on a forum somewhere and I think that was the only relevant mention of the combination of bad files I was finding on my machine.
(I'm definitely not affiliated or anything.  Was just entirely satisfied by a product that did what I needed it to do at the right time.  And, um, I'll renew my lapsed subscription next time I find a problem!)
When I had malware problems a while ago (initially noticed by some vague McAfee access-protection violation) I was scanning and submitting suspect files all over the shop.  [I seem to recall about 25% of the online scanners recognised anything wrong with the files at all - but wouldn't agree on what the problem was.]  I went through all the removers and/or manual steps I could find, but those bad files just kept coming back.
Personaly, if i found my windows box infected with a rootkit, I would just reformat and reinstall the OS. Even if there was a good tool out there that says it removed everything, I just would have a better peace of mind just reinstalling it all.
You might have a rootkit on the computer, in which case you should run HitManPro 3.5, which will detect the TDL3/TDSS/Alueron rootkit. 
I wouldn't trust any of them.  Once you've been "pwned", the best thing to do is start with a fresh system install.
a)  I was getting desperate:  I was about to have to do a reinstall just as a work deadline was resuming;