The whole purpose of defragmentation is to arrange the files in such a way as to make them more or less sequential, so that the heads do not have to be repositioned as much in order to read a file.
No, you should not defrag an SSD. And performing one will actually reduce the life of your drive. All of the SSD manufacturer’s know of this problem and they have come up with an optimization technique with the use of the TRIM command.
SSD's do not have heads that need to be moved, nor do they have spinning latency.  As a result, the access time for every cell in the matrix is equal, and is measured in nanoseconds (billionths of a second).  Even if a file is very heavily fragmented, the increased latency to read it is imperceptibly small.  Defragging will not improve performance to a noticeable degree.
Currently, with HDDs and SSDs, if you delete some data on the hard drive, the operating system does not actually remove the content from the disk, it just deletes the pointer to the address and therefore “deletes” the data. That’s probably why you’re heard of secure delete or government security file deletion, which actually overwrites the deleted data with gibberish so no one can use advanced tools to read data later on.
This issue of data not actually being deleted is what causes the lifespan of SSDs to be reduced. If the drive knew which areas of memory didn’t contain any important data, it could simply re-use it for new data. The TRIM command is supported by the latest SSDs and will optimize the hard drive so that it reduces the number of writes/deletions and therefore extends the life of your SSD significantly.
Traditional spinning hard drives have a metric known as Access Time (or Seek Time, which is a slightly different measurement) that refers to the average amount of time it takes for the drive armature to physically reposition the heads so that they can begin reading data from a given sector of the disk (it may be more or less depending on how far the heads have to travel).  It should be noted that this latency is measured in milliseconds (thosandths of a second) and is incurred every single time the heads have to be repositioned.
Also unlike traditional spinning hard drives, the individual cells in an SSD have a limited number of write cycles before they "wear out".  SSDs employ a wear-leveling algorithm to spread out writes to extend the life of the drive.  Relocating the same data to a different area of the flash cells waste those write cycles.  In this case, defragging can actually reduce the lifespan of the drive.