One source of network congestion, for example, is heartbeat traffic related to load balancing or NIC teaming.
In addition to what Shane posted in his answer, take care not to slay the wrong dragon. Yes, NetBIOS is chatty, but it's not neccessarily a problem that needs to be dealt with. Broadcast traffic, whether it be at layer 2 (ARP, Spanning Tree BPDU's, etc) or layer 3 (NetBIOS, etc) is a normal component of network traffic and communication. The key is to know whether or not the particular broadcast traffic you're focused on (ARP flooding, broadcast storm, multicast storm) is contributing to network issues (most likely congestion) which can manifest itself in duplicate ACK's, packet loss, TCP retransmits, TCP fast retransmits, etc.
My suggestion would be to run a packet capture on your switch (if the switch supports port mirroring/monitoring) with packet capture software that can give you a view of the percentage of traffic that is broadcast traffic as a whole and also what percentage of traffic is NetBIOS broadcast traffic. NetBIOS traffic that is not broadcast traffic (meaning it's unicast traffic) shouldn't present any more of a problem than any other unicast traffic.
I don't know of any hard numbers but if your percentage of broadcast traffic is above a few percent (not more than 5% probably) then you probably have network congestion that's manifesting itself in the symptoms I described above. At that point you should track down the cause of the congestion and resolve it.
If clients are set to the default NetBIOS setting (enabled except if DHCP says not to), then you can simply set the flag in the DHCP options to disable NetBIOS, under the Microsoft Windows 2000 Options vendor class - set an 0x2 under the 001 Microsoft Disable Netbios Option - see this MS KB for details.
If you don't have any applications that need it, just take down the WINS server and disable NetBIOS over TCP/IP completely, I'd say.  Short names still work just fine in a DNS-only network by virtue of search suffixes.