I also had this problem before, and I solved it by going to the Git Bash, and using rm -rf my-directory.
That will show you a list of all items within Downloads, with the date/time created followed by a ( <DIR> ) if a folder / a ( 0 ) if a file, the name in a shortened format, and then the full name.
I've actually noticed in the past that even with hidden files on and all the bells and whistles saying to show all files that certain programs would still have files that if saved with them were completely invisible in explorer. That's likely the case here. What I would do is go into whatever programs you were using this folder with and go to open file (if applicable) and see what is actually in the file in that view. There might be a lot of junk windows seems intent on hiding from you.
With movefile you can, well... move files (directories are files!) on the next reboot. Moving a file to no destination, i.e. "" schedules deletion on next reboot. Note that it needs to be run from an elevated prompt (otherwise you get Error 5 trying to schedule boot-time deletes).
If you don't know Git, you can download it by typping 'Git' on Google, install it and then just right click on your explorer, where the directory is, and click on 'Git bash here'.
Sysinternals suite has already been mentioned, but ProcessExplorer is actually the wrong tool. movefile is what you want. Killing the process that has the directory open may work, but it is not a good (or safe) approach.
I've had this problem before, years ago when I used a website's automatic convert/download to change a page's html into a txt file download. The way Windows deals with the naming of files made it so that the quotations in the title changed the filetype to whatever was after the quotes, and made it undeletable. The solution I found was also described as being able to delete folders, so it should help you too.
Find the shortened name of the folder you want to delete and then type it exactly as shown in the list - capitalized, numbers, tildes, whatever (without the labeling 0 if a file) - minus the brackets I include here in the example:
And that's it! If you want to delete a file, just change rmdir to erase, and you're good! Just make sure that the folder you want to delete is actually empty and has nothing important in it first.