No.  Backing up one Domain Controller is not the same as backing up Active Directory.  IF everything goes well, then sure, you might be able to get away with it.  Of course, backups only exist for when everything doesn't go well, so you should always consider what could go wrong when you're coming up with a backup strategy.  In this case, I see two major issues.
The problem isn't so much the backing up of domain controllers, it's restoring them that is the tricky part.  Make sure you do your homework before restoring!
As stated/implied above, you should backup all your domain controllers daily.  As mentioned above, put the backups in a folder that's named by the date taken to prevent backups from being overwritten, and consider incremental and/or differential backups to save space.
That is (or was) a restriction on the original version of Windows Backup, that came on older OSes (Vista RTM and Server 2008 RTM - this may or may not have been addressed in service packs or updates to those OSes).  Windows 7+/Server 2008 R2+ handle system state backups to network folders fine.
You will frequently find advice about backing up and restoring domain controllers that boils down to "don't backup your DC". This is unfortunately bad advice. You should be backing up all of your domain controllers, because you never know which one will be corrupt.
The answer to all of your problems is to invest in a "real" centralized backup solution like Veam, Acronis, Unitends, etc. These tools are AD aware, support retention periods, get the data backed up to an external disk array (or tape), and provide a single pane of glass for monitoring the backup status of all your servers. 
You are correct.  The NTDS (NT Directory Service) folder contains the databases that essentially are your Active Directory Domain.  A system state backup should get that folder and the databases in it.  (Wouldn't hurt to verify that on your backups, of course.)  As the saying goes, backups that aren't restore-tested aren't really backups.