Other distros, such as Fedora, jam new features and versions of things in really fast -- but since their lifespan is so short, such distributions are therefore unsuited for use on servers.  I don't want to have to rebuild everything every twelve months because my distro is now unsupported.
I've found CentOS to support virtualisation under Xen better - I tried Ubuntu at first, but it kept crashing. I've had 10 servers running on CentOS for the past couple of years, no problems. I do use Ubuntu as the OS for virtual machines, though.
Example: RHEL 5's libfontconfig package has a bug in it and you cannot update the package to anything higher with yum.  Thats not very stable.  I ran a program on ubuntu and RHEL and it crashed on RHEL but not on Ubuntu (though it was due an improper piece of code in the application).
So if you want steady and stable, RedHat/CentOS is a good fit.  If you want "new and shiny", it isn't.
I have a case like this right now, where we have to consider to either buy product A and learn RHEL enterprise administration, or hack it up on Ubuntu and use our existing knowledge.
The only reason you might get forced into using RHEL (or CentOS) is when software providers only guarantee support if you run their product on it.
This flaw is also a feature, in that you can install an early rev of a particular stream and you know nothing important will change over the supported lifespan of the OS.  So I have systems running RedHat 4 which are essentially unchanged except for security and bug fixes over the almost two years that the OS has been available.
RedHat suffers from flaws in that major new features are only introduced for "major" version bumps; minor version bumps are usually bug- and security-fix only.  (Firefox is the major, perhaps only, exception to this rule.)  As such, it changes very slowly.
The "Killer Feature" is a near-identicalness to RedHat, which is the platform most targeted by third party vendors that offer support.
Alot of posters above me here seem to forget (or don't know) that Ubuntu has a LTS Server release. The only updates you'll get are fixes and security patches, nothing else. If you desperately need to install something newer from packages you can just use 3rd-party software repositories (like dotdeb for latest PHP/MySQL for LAMP servers), but it will violate any existing support contract with Ubuntu.