If you are using Debian Sid or Testing, these break OpenVZ compatibility with their core packages (kernel, systemD stuff) almost constantly. After the third go around I just switched to Fedora.
With Xen and a new virtual machine installation it was easy to hit a similar bug with Debian installation images; by default udev was not installed and that was required for starting ssh server. 
i restored the OS template on my VPS, reinstalled the basic stuff, htop, nginx, php5, php5-fpm, phpmyadmin, mysql, nano and vsftpd. I created my user, added it as SU user. the /etc/init.d is full and normal, DIDNT change anything except those deamons conf and restarted them after every change so everything was ok , I could access via SSH with my user, pERFECT. I reboot my VPS, bam, im locked out! ram seems to be there about 38MB used (ok maybe something is not starting) but sshd and webserver are not starting so sites wont load and i can't do anything!
If they can determine RAM usage, it sounds like it has booted up. If you can't PING it, it may well have failed to start network configuration. It's hard to say why, /etc/init.d/network might be doing the wrong thing (no idea what), or perhaps the VM has ended up on eth2 or 3 instead of eth0 after a reboot (I've seen that happen before).
If you can get access, do an ifconfig - if the lo isn't there you've probably not started network at all. If it is there but eth* isn't, do ls -al /etc/sysconfig/network-scripts/ifcfg-eth* and then ifup eth[whatever_number_it_returned]. If you try that and it says "network adapter not present" or similar, do dmesg | grep eth and see if it says, eg. it has moved to eth4 - then move /etc/sysconfig/network-scripts/ifcfg-eth0 to ifcfg-eth4, open it in a text editor and change the label to eth4, and then try ifup eth4
So in my case a simple apt-get install udev made the trick. Check out your process list and see if udev is running or not.
Anyway now that I think about it I think I found the reason: I did an "apt-get upgrade", do you think that could be the problem? Should I never do it on OPENVZ?
I asked my provider (spacerich) to tell me if there's some way I can access the vps, so I'm waiting for them to respond. what exactly is the procedure to follow in this case?