In addition to the already great answers it may also be worth your time to modularize the code file so that it's easy to invoke and easy to distribute. that way, instead of having to invoke it as
Here's a great post by Ed Wilson that describes how to modularize an already written PowerShell script and it shows how to include native help as a comment. A little old, but still very relevant.
I would suggest storing it in a variable. That way, if the path ever needs to change, one change would cascade through all of the places it needs to without any risk of making a mistake in just one of them.
Whenever we first set up a user for FTP, we have to set up a folder for them. The folder needs to be named after the company, and include "Incoming" and "Outgoing" subfolders. This needs to be created on ServerA, and the exact same thing created on ServerB. This script finds out what the company name is, checks credentials, and then creates the folders in the appropriate places. 
Jokes aside, you should look into parameterizing the script, so you could invoke it with command-line arguments instead of prompting for them, if that's possible. This would also reduce the maintenance burden on the script, because if the "server A" and "server B" aren't hard-coded in the script, there's nothing to change but how the script is invoked when either server needs to be changed.
By creating the script as a function in a module, it also makes it easy to add native PowerShell help to your script that describes usage, expectations, etc. All of this is very easy to do without any significant extra work. Remember, documenting your code will help when in 18 months someone has to come along and modify the code, knowing nothing about it. Doubly so because that person is likely to be you!
This is pretty much the first Powershell script I've ever done and I am here looking for a quick review of it. Is there something I could have done better? Is the format okay? I don't know much about expected standards, and this was cobbled together as a result of me wanting to learn.    