You control the outgoing ports and so control which services are available via the VPN. Users wishing to use unavailable services will need to use the Internet directly rather than via your VPN. This is possible for them by manipulating their route tables.
This is where the problem lies; I only want the VPN server to support this server network, and not allow people access to the internet. This is because if they download torrents, watch video, etc, it will make the VPN server slow. Obviously I can just block all access to the web, but unfortunately most players like to browse the internet, play music on YouTube, etc, while playing.
I understand that the VPN is housed on Linux and Crysis on Windows. Therefore all VPN communication goes through the Linux server.
You could set the firewall to allow on the IP segment of the VPN only outgoing connections to the Windows server, so no connection to the Internet is possible on the VPN.
I'm creating a new VPN service, to enable players of the Crysis 1, Crysis Wars, and Crysis 2 games to continue playing after the online multiplayer is shut down at the end of this month.
The purpose of this VPN service is to provide a private LAN, where players can connect to the VPN and view the LAN server list to connect to servers (servers obviously have to be connected to the VPN also).
So i would use tunggle because it's very stable and easy to setup. You can also setup private networks. Check it out at http://www.tunngle.net
I recommend using OpenVPN.  There is an option called "redirect-gateway" in the client configuration which, if enabled, will redirect traffic from the client though your VPN.  You obviously would not want this option in the OpenVPN configurations your clients have.  Server-side, you could use "iptables" to prevent clients from accessing the internet though your the VPN.  This link link contains information for how to configure OpenVPN and in the section labeled "Configuring client-specific rules and access policies" it guides you though giving your users limited network access.  In your class you would want to probably drop by default and forward packets only to the Crysis servers.
Is it possible on Windows to only allow the games and servers to use the VPN, while forcing users to bypass the VPN for other internet communication?
Is there some Windows Firewall rule that can be applied to create this behaviour? I only want the gameservers and games to use the VPN server.