To prevent BitLocker encryption unless the information is backed up in Active Directory, you need to enable the following Group Policy setting:  
To enable TPM Recovery, you don't need to update the schema.  You need to enable write access to the ms-TPM-OwnershipInformation attribute for the Self identity.  Microsoft provides the Add-TPMSelfWriteACE.vbs script for this.   
As a result, when I try to encrypt an AD-bound Windows 8 Enterprise machine with BitLocker, it fails because Windows 8 tries to store the TPM authorization hash as a child object (with type ms-TPM-OwnershipInformation) of the computer object, while the Server 2008 R2 schema requires storing this information as an attribute (specifically, msTPM-OwnerInformation) of the computer object. This is perfectly fine and dandy - in fact, it's clearly documented in a TechNet article that this behavior is intentional, and the solution is to update to Server 2012 schema. Cool.
I have not been able to find any documentation that would indicate that Windows 8.1 behaves differently from Windows 8 on this matter. As the mainstream support end date for Server 2008 R2 is not until 01/13/14, I wouldn't expect that Microsoft has intentionally implemented what I have described. Might this then be an unintended behavior? If so, how might one best address the matter with Microsoft?
Computer > Policies > Administrative Templates > Windows Components > BitLocker Drive Encryption > Operating System Drives  
You can also backup the information to Active Directory after the fact.  This is sometimes useful for computers that are rejoined to the domain:  
The bit that concerns me is that when I try to encrypt an AD-bound Windows 8.1 Enterprise machine, it succeeds under these same circumstances. However, despite the policy setting requiring the TPM backup, it simply doesn't occur - it is neither stored in the computer attribute, nor is it created as a child object to the computer.
My organization is running AD DS on Server 2008 R2 schema. Already a bad start, I know, but let's pretend that's impossible to change. In our default domain policy, we have the following setting enabled to require AD backup of TPM owner authorization value hashes:
"Do not enable BitLocker until recovery information is stored to AD DS for operating system drives"  