If you have an Optane disk, better pick it up and sell it, the buy a real NVMe SSD which is usually faster. I'm running on an HP EX920 and all its I/O specs (sequential / 4K) are higher than the Optane drive.
You've fallen victim to intentionally deceptive marketing. I recommend purchasing a different laptop (with 8GB or more of RAM) to satisfy your use case. Perhaps one from a more upfront manufacturer.
It is by no means a replacement for RAM, not only because the memory itself is much slower, but also because when used for virtual memory, you have the interrupt latency and processing cost of page faults (which uses actual processor cycles). Also, data has to go over a bus which -- although pretty fast -- is still significantly slower with significantly higher latency compared to ordinary RAM, plus you share bandwidth with other transfers on the bus.
For a long time, RAM has been often called 'memory' in laptops targeted at the layperson. This is usually helpful and hasn't caused issues, until recently. The same companies that started this practice are now lumping Optane cache and RAM under the same name 'memory' with the intention of tricking you into thinking that the laptop has more RAM than it actually has. Optane technology is still relatively new and unknown so this deception is very easy to fall for. Looking deeper into a product listing will usually reveal the truth.
Optane cache doesn't, and wasn't meant to, replace RAM. They both help speed up a computer, but operate differently and in different situations. Having Optane won't alleviate the heavy slowdown of only having 4GB of RAM when normal use requires at least 5GB.
Others have covered many aspects of this very well and I think you already know that Intel Optane is in no way comparable to RAM.
Strictly speaking, in modern computers RAM is the only primary storage because it's the only thing that's connected directly to the processor. We classify Intel Optane disks because it's not connected directly to the processor, but an I/O bus (or the disk controller). This heavily limits the potential of an Optane drive and ultimately disqualifies it from being comparable to RAM.
Optane is Intel's marketing word for a combination of a solid state drive with 3D XPoint memory (which is little more than twice as fast as NAND, but also much more expensive) and some more or less intrusive driver/tool combination that interfere with your operating system's normal mode of operation -- much like the very similar stuff that Samsung has been distributing for years with their Evo disks (comes as optional install via Samsung Magician).
So... if you have a poor harddisk, Optane (or any SSD for that matter) may be a viable strategy for caching data. But as a drop-in replacement or extension for real RAM, no way.
In a Von Neumann architecture, "RAM" refers to the primary storage in a computer, whic is directly access by the processor. An Intel Optane drive belongs to the category of "secondary storage" because it is more like a disk rather than RAM.