So, in short, the registrar may ask you for IP addresses besides the nameservers names and then do its magic to create properly things at the registry.
There's no technical reason you should host their DNS. If you don't have the requisite highly available and globally diverse infrastructure for hosting their DNS, and if you don't have the requisite knowledge and experience (Which you don't by virtue of your question) then you should not be hosting their DNS.
First, a caveat that you may not like: most often this is done for vanity reason and/or trying to hide the true hosting, and in both cases it does not work. So the real solution to your problem would be to just give your clients your nameservers as ns1.my-shiny-hosting-company.example and ns2.my-shiny-hosting-company.example and forget about creating nameservers per website hosted. You then regain a lot of time and sanity by going this simpler route.
As you see, you need to do that at least per (registrar, registry) couple: in some registries external nameservers are created per registrar, in some others there is one object shared for all.
Registries use two separate models to handle nameservers: as objects, or as attributes. gTLDs use objects, many/most(?) ccTLDs use attributes. And things sometimes change (like .FR went from attributes to objects recently). This is mostly hidden normally from you by your registrar.
If you go to the "attributes" case the discussion above about IP addresses and such still holds, the only thing different is that nameservers are not created as separate objects at the registry database, they are just provided as attributes to any command that creates or updates a domain name.
Now more details about really this registering nameserver stuff, if you still want to do that or at least to understand better what that is.
Obviously, if for any domain you want to host a website one you also want to have nameservers using the same name, then all of these nameservers are "in-bailiwick" and you are immediately in the most complex case to register them, let us see why now.
Yes. And even not "the registrar" but "each and every registrar" used by your clients domain names (they are free to register them everywhere or you handle everything yourself? Not clear from your question...)
Expect major headaches going that route. Especially if you are not already an expert in the DNS hosting and the domain name registration businesses.
This is not meant as an insult to you. Leave the DNS hosting to the entities that have the infrastructure and experience. There's no reason for you to host DNS for your clients and you should not host DNS for your clients.
But in all cases the drawbacks of all that if you decide to go the route of "let us create a ns1 and ns2 under all domains we host" means:
You seem to be confused about what "registering" a nameserver means, and that can be easy (to be confused) as there is a lot of misinformation. So the below will just answer that specific part, but other than that nowadays doing DNS for any kind of non-trivial setup might not be a good idea to start with without any kind of experience of low level DNS protocol working, shell scripting, monitoring, automating, etc. especially with more complex technologies like DNSSEC.
I have done enough research and I feel that a solution specific to my problem doesn't exist or I'm unable to find an easy option to choose. So I'm going to offer my clients managed hosting using third-party web services. The issue I'm facing is regarding the custom nameservers. As I'll be offering VPS machines to my clients, so I want to register custom nameservers for each VPS and the nameservers should be on my main domain. Domain registrars offer the feature to register custom nameservers or hostnames, but is this possible to use a DNS server to register my custom nameservers? Is the registrar only entity that can handle this for me? If there is a solution, please help.