If you want to be sure, you can download Wi-Fi Scanner on your computer, which will show you the different APs present in your area in all the channels that can be covered by your computer Wi-Fi interface.
This difference is due to the fact that back when 11n didn't exist, there was no more than one radio chain on a device, be it a station or an AP.
Though, please note that expressively using 20MHz BW in 802.11ac has no use in a residential use case. It cancels any improvement brought by 11ac technology. If you're afraid of a performance loss because there's multiple 80MHz APs in the area, don't be as the most efficient way is to set your AP in 80MHz too, in the same primary channel as the other APs.
You need to note that the data rates are all theoretical values, that cannot be achieved in a standard setup. For example, the maximum you can get from 11g data rates in faraday cage is approximately 35Mbps.
The modulation does factor in, in the same way it does in 11n. The higher the modulation, the higher the data rate.
I have no answer to that, but might as well profit from it. It is possible though that the speed test works in a way that is not subject to the plan limitation.
As you said, you're in 11n, so you're not limited by 11g data rates. In 11n you are limited by the capacity of the lesser device. If your AP is 2x2:2 and your station 3x3:3, you will be limited to the data rates allowed by the usage of 2 spatial streams.
Setting your 802.11ac AP in channel 149 doesn't necessarily limit your AP to less than 80MHz as this band (called UNII-3) can be used in the U.S. without bandwidth limitation. 
Channel 149 itself is not the 80MHz channel (it is ch155*) but usually, in commercial APs, you only set the primary 20MHz channel of the 80MHz one.
The max data rate depends on the number of spatial streams between the transmitter & the receiver. You can check this link for the exact data rates.
Also, the channel won't directly ponder in the data rate, but more in the general performances as all channels do not allow the same max emission power.