Without that, the closest you can come is by checking the creation date on the user's registry hive, ntuser.dat file, user profile folder etc., but as mentioned in the comments, this is only accurate regarding the user's first logon, as that's when those things are created.
I you want to stick with more built-in tools, here is a series of Scripting Guy articles explaining how via PowerShell:
Evan's second link, for samparse, might get it right though. Looking at its actually does work. If you look at its source here, line 99:
The only way to actually know would be to have account management auditing enabled on the computer when the account was created.  Then, you'd see EventID 4720 in the Event Log at the creation date.  (The article says Active Directory, but the same applies to local accounts as well; I checked.)
The data is in the SAM but it doesn't appear to be publicly documented by Microsoft and I'm not finding an official API to retrieve it. I can see, looking at the source code for the chntpw utility that the value is stored in the "F" registry key for each account. Quoth the source code:
you'll see it calls get_timestamp from Perl's Parse::Win32Registry. I'm pretty sure that is actually the last write time of the key. Since it appears that particular key (HKLM\SAM\SAM\Domains\Account\Users\Names\<USERNAME>) only holds a pointer to the corresponding RID key, it shouldn't change after creation and the last write time will be equal to the creation time.
In researching this I did find it amusing that a Microsoft MVP didn't know that the account creation data is stored in the SAM. To his benefit maybe he isn't away of the chntpw utility, which is where I started my search for information about undocumented SAM structures.
I was about to give you a POC PowerShell script to extract and parse out the creation time, but I realized that chntpw's logic is incorrect. The value it calls the creation time is actually the password last set time, although these values are the same upon the initial account creation. See here for an exhaustive description of the SAM.
Unfortunately for you, this is a case of "if you didn't log it, then that information doesn't exist."
C:\Users and you will see all the user accounts listed on the local machine.  You can right click the appropriate user account and go to properties and it will show you a date created, this should be the same as the creation of the user account