Of course, if you are really that worried that Lenovo's site will go offline, you should be visiting the site every 6 months anyway and downloading the latest (self extracting) drivers for your computer(s) and storing them in a local archive somewhere, just in case.
(Plus I usually find that they're fairly small folders since drivers aren't usually that big... are you really going to save that much space?)
The long answer is that any c:\drivers folder created is proprietary (it is not a folder defined by Microsoft or any other convention) - something (a driver, a Lenovo disk image, etc) has created this folder, and there are no guarantees about whether it is just a temporary folder, or if it is actually being used. I came across a number of sound card drivers in the W2k era that created that folder instead of installing to Program Files - deleting the folder would nuke the drivers and force you start in safe mode to repair the damage.
So, in short, they are safe to delete (at least on Lenovo computers). In fact, if you download drivers from the Lenovo website, you should delete C:\drivers\ as soon as the installation is complete because those files are doing nothing more than taking up extra space.
In the second case, the files have to be unpacked before the installer is run. The default location where they are unpacked to is C:\drivers\. Once they are installed, you no longer need the unpacked files and usually it is better to download the latest driver version if you intend to reinstall them than to keep around one that will almost certainly be out of date the next time you need it.
The short answer is that it's probably safe to delete, but unless it's using up lots of space or otherwise posing a direct problem you shouldn't.
Some people here question the logic of deleting the files stating that they are usually quite small, and that it isn't worth the risk. But in my case, those unpacked files took up about 3GB of space! Considering that my total hard disk space is 750GB with less than 200GB allocated to the C drive, that is some valuable real estate to get back, especially when you consider that those files are literally providing no value (except maybe insurance in case Lenovo's site goes offline AND your computer needs to be rebuilt with the exact same OS you have now).
This folder almost certainly has various drivers that you'll need if you ever rebuild the system, and it's far easier to keep hold of them somewhere than to have to find them all again.  At the very least burn them onto a CD before deleting from the HDD.