NOOBS wouldn't let me expand the partition after putting the image on a larger SD Card so I ended up using moving the var folder contents of the NOOBS install, then deleted the original folder and made the change in fstab And once I remembered to make the empty var folder on the root, it worked.
The easiest way would be to back up your data, reformat the card and then install the Debian OS to the SD Card, I realize that it seems you want to remove NOOBS without having to reinstall Debian. Doing this would be both difficult and frustrating to do, and I don't see any need for it unless you have some valuable data on the Pi that somehow can't be backed up(which I wouldn't understand why it wouldn't be able to be backed up).
Next, I installed Raspian on the spare SD card, then moved the backup over to the new card. To restore the backup, I ran
Expanding on OceansCrashing answer, this is the rsync syntax I used to successfully copy one live Pi (with noobs) to another one (running native Raspbian):
Just had to do this same thing in order to save space on backups.  It actually wasn't difficult at all, provided you have some time and an extra SD card.
NOTE:  I didn't exclude fstab, and the article I linked doesn't mention to do so.  Because NOOBS has a different partition map, it failed to boot.  I just plugged the SD card into another linux machine and edited fstab to point to the proper partition.  But if you follow the above steps, you shouldn't have to do this.
I started by creating a script that backed up everything I was interested in.  Credit goes to this article for getting me started.  I think rsync pushing to a remote machine would be better suited for this, but I had enough space on the original SD card to go this route.  I can provide instructions for rsync too needed. Rsync supports exludes also, just exclude the same directories that the following script excludes.
If you use rsync instead, you could probably restore a backup remotely, if space on either SD card is a concern.