Also, ALWAYS CHECK YOUR BACKUPS. In my previous post as a Jr. Linux Sysadmin, I came across 8 years worth of weekly backups...ended up needing one. found that the man who had just been fired for gross-incompetence, had been backing up the wrong directly (an empty one) for 8 years.
I'm not certain what your situation is, but in my experience a full backup of a system is not necessary or even a good idea. (GASP!)
We do not store user data of any sort on our C: drives.  They're jsut there for application data that can't be installed on another drive, and for configuration issues. 
I do complete backups of our C: drives on select windows servers with system states weekly. We only bother to backup the OSes of machines which have things kept on the C: drive that aren't easily recreated.  Many boxes are faster to rebuild than restore anyhow. The theory behind Weekly Fulls being stuff shouldn't be changing on those drives all that often.  We keep those backups two weeks, so we have two back copies.  It has given us a great balance at being able to get back what we need and not consuming too much disk.  Also it means our OS/System State backups are relatively fresh, and if we do have to roll back in changes lost, they're only from the past week, which means they are recent enough to remember, and not too many as to be a nuisance.
We don't do full backups of C:, either, but we do back up system state nightly.  If you use active directory, it's pretty important to keep regular system state backups from your DCs -- they don't take up that much space by themselves compared to a full backup of the entire drive, and if your backup is older than the DNS tombstone age (which is 60 days by default) it's no good for restoring AD. 
Basically, in my opinion and experience a "state-backup" is a messy way to get things done. If you need absolute minimum downtime (as in less than a minute) use redundency. for all else, use a backup solution that fits the system (rsync based solution for the file system, repositories for code, etc).
From direct experience, bare metal backup of the OS and system drive often don't go smoothly.  We choose to use things like hot-swap RAID for redundancy and then backup data and -- wherever possible -- configuration with the assumption we'll need to reinstall OS and apps if anything goes completely bonkers anyway.
We do have nightly backup of our DCs with SystemStates so that we have current AD info once again those we only keep two weeks, basically for DR only.  In comparison to user data which we keep much longer.
Essentially, the best thing to do is have failsafe redundancy in the beginning (such as Master-Master replication on a mysql server), or Raid-1. (or 5 for best results).
Complete backups of asolutely everything on the server here; full at weekends, differentials nightly.  Considering the fairly minimal overhead that doing System State imposes on your backup in terms of both time and storage, there's no real reason not to do it.