Keep in mind that most recommendations by Microsoft are to put things like Exchange, SQL, AD and others on different servers. 
The only real reason you'll need to use Windows Server 2008 R2 Enterprise edition for Exchange is if you want to use the high availability DAG features of Exchange 2010.
Ben is entirely correct on the main reasons to purchase Enterprise over Standard. I would still recommend Enterprise (or even Datacenter, depending on your usage), however. The reason is virtualization.
If you arent interested in clustering and its not going to be an overly busy server then the standard edition should be right up your alley. 
MadBoy is correct about the licensing. You can either install it on the bare metal and have up to four hosted copies of the OS inside something like VMware Server or Virtual Server, or install a hypervisor such as Hyper-V or ESX and put your four installs (not five!) in there.
With Datacenter edition, however, you can have unlimited virtualized instances of Server 2008 (any version, up to and including Datacenter) for all the licensed CPU's you've purchased (keep in mind Datacenter edition is purchased in two-CPU SKU's). If you're using fairly recent, high-memory physical server hosts, you can easily fit 10-20 or more moderately used servers per dual quad-core 48GB host. You may not think you need this much, but you can quickly get to that number when you think of having two domain controllers for the forest, two more for the domain, an additional for a lag site, several PKI servers (makes Exchange 2010 easier to work with for certificates), one or more file servers, etc.
It's well worth taking some time to think how big this IT infrastructure is going to get. Rushing forward with Standard edition can hurt you in the future in total cost.
The most notable differences that I can see for you are clustering and RAM support. Exchange is a bit resource intense, so depending on whether or not you want to get above 32gb of ram is a bit of a concern. 
Good thing about Windows Server 2008 R2 Enterprise is that it allows you to run 4 virtual machines of Windows Server 2008R2 (licenses for that included in that price). In comparison Standard edition doesn't allow you for something like that. While you may not need virtualization just yet but possibility to have 4 systems instead of 1 is a good thing for future. If at any time you decide you need to add SQL Server or some DNS you just set up another VM machine and you're done. You could have Exchange VM, SQL VM, and AD, DNS on the same box (of course the other physical box in your location should cover the redundancy if needed). 
The requirement of the Enterprise edition of the operating system is because DAGs use pieces of Windows clustering to do their thing, which is not available in the Standard edition.