The way you describe it it sounds like your issue is that you cannot login as root via ssh (probably you used some sort of su or sudo to work as root).
scp and sftp work by creating new sessions and talking to an executable on the other end that's running in place of a shell.
You are logged into a remote server.  I presume you can get to this file under your non-root account.  So, scp should work.  The user your specify under scp can reach everything as if you were logged in.
Some client programs have methods built in for doing pretty much the same thing with, say, the XMODEM protocol or similar, but availability of the transmission software on the server side is probably going to be a lot less than for base64, which is included in most of the Linux distros I've used recently.  If you have a client that supports it though, it takes care of the chopping and decoding phase automatically, which can be convenient for large files.  I don't know that anybody's really used it since the days of telnet BBSs though, so good luck.  
The way I would do what you're asking for would be to turn on session logging on your ssh client (Ways to do this vary.  Depending on the file you might get away with just setting a big scrollback buffer.), and then base64 encode the file and blit it to your terminal.  :D
I don't know why it has to be the same session, but if you use ControlMaster and ControlPath in your ~/.ssh/config you don't have to authorize your scp connection since it multiplexes in the same connection. This also speeds up your connection you do to the same host.
You can then trim the extraneous bits off of either end of the log and base64 decode it back into your original file.
If you are needing to sudo or su to get to this file on the remote system, the proper thing to do is copy it to your normal user's home directory, chmod so your normal user owns and can read it, then get it with scp, etc.  If the file is very large, chmod the file directly temporarily without making a copy.
Another thing you can try - If you are running your own SSH server at home or wherever, and it's reachable from the remote SSH server you're logged into, you can use scp to send it from your remote session to your local system.