But keep in mind, even the best people are unsuccessful in achieving this. Everything can be bypassed, which turns this into a security by obscurity. You don't tell the end-user the file will not work after 30 days so they don't look for a way to break it, and then break it after 30 days. This is of course really not-done and will not make you friends. This also means it will work once, but once the word is out, it won't work a second time.
Once people know there is something in place to prevent usage after 30 days, it becomes a matter of the chicken and the egg. Are you better at providing security or are they better at cracking? In any case, you will move to an encryption of some sort by this stage, which already invalidates the answer to this question.
A file cannot be actionable in itself. It opens into an app, which does all the work, so to delete it you would need complicity from that remote operating system or a specific app, which is not going to happen.
Keep in mind, that browsers have cache, and anyone can "copy" anything they see on the screen, so if you need to copy/protect as well, you will need to include watermarks.
Secondly, it is trivial to make copies of any file, so even if you could circumvent the first hurdle, the second will stop you.
You would need to have something that the user executes that is otherwise encrypted, and have the time-limit build in. After the time expires it would stop it from using. Given that local clocks can be defeated, you would need to rely on an online time source. This means your protection requires always-online, and if you go this far, it is most likely the better solution to create something online that views whatever it is you want to share, and control everything server-side. They have a link to your goods, and that link will simply expire.
My friend wants to email a certain file to another person, and allow that person to use the file for 30 days, after which it will automatically delete itself. Is this even possible?