On the other hand, when your site's NS record is pointed at ns1.hostgator.com, that address is very likely to be cached by DNS servers worldwide, same for ns1.p13.dynect.net, and ns0.dynamicnetworkservices.net, which means those lookups are not repeated each time a query is made for your domain. 
If my logic is correct, would this mean that adding a glue record for a small site would be more beneficial in practice, than, say, a big site, which prob has all of these NS servers already resolved in the cache + they are more likely to be on a DNS server which has the IP glue records immediately vs. pointing to another DNS server which points to another etc.
If you, instead, make glue records for someSmallSite vs. using the DNS of a shared host (like Hostgator), aren't you avoiding 3 round-trips to resolve the NS record, and then the NS record of the NS record etc, until you finally get the IP address of the DNS server?
If it's a site with little traffic, it's not likely that the glue record will be cached on any given DNS server, which in turn will incur a slight penalty when a request is made.
Your own domain's NS record is not likely to be in cache, though, due to its relative unpolularity. 
Okay say you own someSmallSite.com. Its NS nameserver, is say, ns1.hostgator.com. The NS server of Hostgator is ns1.p13.dynect.net. The NS record of that is ns0.dynamicnetworkservices.net which has a same (glue) record of the same domain.
With this approach there's a very high chance of doing one lookup for somesmallsite.com NS against the .com authoritative nameservers.
Say someone tries to resolve someSmallSite.com. Since it's a small site, most DNS servers probably have no caches of any of this. So 3 round-trips would have to be made in order to find the actual authoritative DNS server for someSmallSite.com. (resolving ns1.hostgator.com, then ns1.p13.dynect.net and at the end, ns0.dynamicnetworkservices.net which will contain the actual IP address of the DNS server).
You are right that adding the glue record (to ns1.somesmallsite.com, for example) would save a few lookups when resolving your site's address. 
There's still a very high chance of doing one lookup for somesmallsite.com NS, plus a small chance of having to do lookups for ns1.hostgator.com, ns1.p13.dynect.net, and ns0.dynamicnetworkservices.net.