If they do not want to allow PXE booting or imaging in general on the production network then you will either want to prep new computers on a dedicated port in your office and rely on USMT to backup and restore customer data from a file server. This is what we did at my office.
In short, without any sort of assistance from your network team I don't believe that there is a good automated solution.
The problem is that once that image is finished, we have to switch the vlan back to the user vlan, creating extra work for us. Is there any way around this? We are trying to automate this process as much as possible and this extra bit of work does not lend itself to efficiency.
Most products require you to configure MAC addresses in DHCP for imaging to, so a normal PC will not use DHCP addresses from the imaging server, this begs the question why have a PXE VLAN? I use one for servers but all production networks are tagged so we can rebuild the server without needing to change the switch, but I would suggest this setup is needlessly complex. Use 2 DHCP servers 1 to build and one for normal operations and have a small scope in the build DHCP server.
The powers that be have created an imaging vlan dedicated specifically for this purpose, presumably for load balancing?
Split your 3750x and assign some ports for the imaging VLAN and some ports for your regular user traffic VLAN.  When your imaging is complete simply swap your patch cable to the correct port.  Or you can simply allow your image VLAN to access necessary network resources to complete your imaging process, this can be done through ACLs. 
The above is easy to do when you are on-site, but quickly becomes cumbersome when you are working remotely. We had to "set customer expectations" and ship newly imaged machines with their data restored to the customer. A "technical contact" would assist in its installation and they would ship the old unit to us for disposal or redeployment.
You probably do not want to add any automated configuration capability to your imaging script/PE environment. That wouldn't really jive with most change control systems or frameworks.