The only way you could make that work without pulling new wire would be to crimp those wires into proper ethernet and have a switch at each point in the line that takes the input and then has a downstream port continuing on the other wire in the box to the next jack. But that is really a terrible idea. I would only do that if I was only going to use it in maybe one or two spots. If you are lucky maybe it's cat 5e so you could get gigabit out of it. If that was the case the performance might be ok. Remembe that this is a hack. Not ideal at all.
Borrow RJ45 crimping tool, Network punch tool, network tester and buy some RJ45 ends, it is not that easy (few trials and fails) but you will enjoy the end result if you are successful in doing it, I hope it works for you!
You really need to pull new wire or consider a powerline adapter solution. That or just rely on wifi.
EIA/TIA-568A:White-Green , Solid-Green, White-Orange, Solid-Blue, White-Blue, Solid-Orange, White-Brown. Solid-Brown.
That's not wired for Ethernet at all. Don't be fooled by the presence of an RJ-45 and Cat5 cabling. They wired them both for analog telephone even though only one of them is RJ-11 (you can plug an RJ-11 telephone line cord into an RJ-45 jack and it will fit "okay", and make good contact with the middle pair or middle two pairs). They're using the green pair for line 1 and the blue pair for line 2 (or vice-versa).
If the installer/engineer did not follow standards then you need to follow the installer and match colours at both ends.
There are some Poe repeaters / 3 port switches what would give you this "drop and continue" / daisy chain of the multiple ports without needing a power outlet on each. Something like the Dahua pft1300 Its a good idea for "bus" type installations with a single Poe injector at the begining. 
From my experience you can use one Ethernet cable to connect two computers or devices, so by pulling 2 cables you can cover 4 rooms, that's how network splitters/multipliers work.
You're almost certainly going to have to pull new Cat5 (or better) in order to wire those RJ-45's for proper Ethernet. Ethernet requires point-to-point connections, no daisy-chaining. No extra jack in the middle of a cable.
EIA/TIA-568B: White-Orange, Solid-Orange, White-Green, Solid-Blue, White-Blue, Solid-Green, White-Brown, Solid Brown.
Probably it is not daisy chained, On any CAT5 cable only 4 wires are used, other 4 wires are doing nothing other than future proofing or possibly shielding other wires.