You may be better off making godaddy the secondary.  Then you would just edit records in your local primary which would be pushed across to godaddy.
Right now if I add a DNS record in godaddy anyone that is using the Domain Controller as their DNS server will not be able to resolve the url until I add it to the Domain Controller. So if I add new.foo.com pointing to 173.25.24.2 on godaddy the users on the Domain Controller won't be able to resolve new.foo.com unitl I add it to the Domain Controller. Is there a way to have Server 2012 lookup this address automatically?
I have a windows server 2012 R2 box running as my domain controller and I am having some trouble with DNS. I have DNS records setup on the DC for a few sites that we want to have the internal IP different than the external IP. Our main DNS records are on godaddy.com. So for example the DNS record on the DC would be set to 192.168.1.2 mx.foo.com and the one on godaddy would be 173.12.58.1 mx.foo.com. This works fine but the problem I am having is if I make a new DNS record on godaddy the Domain Controller won't resolve the address until it is manually added. 
I have added godaddy's nameservers as the SOA and as the NS in the DC but it still doesn't resolve records from the godaddy. I am sure this is an easy answer but I can't find anything on google for it.  
You have to set godaddy's DNS server as a forwarder. Open dnsmgmt.msc and rigck-click your Server Name, Choose Properties, under Forwarders tab choose Edit and add godaddy's DNS IP address. From now on, every record not found on the local DNS records, will be recursively queried from godaddy and also cached in local DNS server.
Godaddy has an option for notifying secondary DNS servers, they call it Premium DNS.  Your DNS server would need to be able to receive the NOTIFY (zone change notification) from the godaddy primary.
If the primary DNS server is off-site, then you may not be getting notifications from the primary about addition of new records.  I don't know of a way to schedule these, but you can manually trigger a transfer from the master by right-clicking on the domain in DNS manager, and choosing "Transfer from Master"