Oddly, I can send mail using sendmail, but it initially gets the same timeout error and then falls back to an alternative server, which accepts a connection, e.g.
The problem has seemingly resolved itself. Since I could still send email using alternative Google servers, I suspect it was some minor networking issue between my server and Google.
Most of the times that I see similar problems with mail servers (and from the logs presented I  understand that you connect to ALT1.aspmx.l.google.com but mail is not sent) disabling TCP Window scaling helps bypassing (not solving) the problem.
I've found Google has locked accounts/IP Addresses/ActiveSync etc when their automated protection systems suspect suspicious activity.
Sending email from an EC2 instance is just not a good idea unless you are handing the email to a mail server that has specifically agreed to accept your mail. There are a variety of reasons, but the main one is that an EC2's IP address is dynamic and a mail server must be on a static IP address to accept bounces.
This is only occurring from Amazon's cloud. I can connect to smtp.gmail.com from my localhost using the same credentials, and send email just fine. And I can ping smtp.gmail.com just fine from everywhere, so it doesn't seem to be a routing or firewall issue.
Otherwise Google Tech Support once directed me to https://www.google.com/accounts/UnlockCaptcha or http://www.google.com/a/your_domain.com/UnlockCaptcha for an account that ActiveSync had locked down and nothing would bring it back.
To 'unlock' an IP, you can log into the GMail account from that IP using the website gmail.com, and the account will usually come good in a few minutes.
Basically, if you want to send mail, you need to send it to a real mail server that will take responsibility for delivering the mail to its destination. Amazon offers such services, with real mail servers hosted at static IP addresses.
I'm getting a "Connection timeout" error when attempting to send email through smtp.gmail.com using the email facilities in Django running on a Linux machine on Amazon's EC2 service.
The server in question sends very low volumes of email (10-20 a day), so I'd be surprised if it was flagged for spamming.