I don't think that student learn that much from just running someone else's code without going through it. 
Copying a line or two from the official documentation might in some cases be considered the proper way to learn or to code.  Some professional IDEs do this automagically in the auto-complete hints.
That way they get the speed advantages of copy / paste but they also have to engage their brains whilst getting experience debugging. 
Copying from a web search or stackoverflow requires supervision or auditing.  The instructor needs to confirm that the student understands (what it does, the algorithm, etc.) and has checked what they are copying against more official (for the language, library, etc.) documentation.
Item #2, a form of code re-use, especially if it is tested known working lines of code, is usually considered to be a good software engineering practice.
In my class, the only rules I set are that kids may not give code to each other, either directly or indirectly.  I also set a "rule of thumb" that if student A needs help from student B on a portion of a lab, student B must have finished that portion, and may look at student A's (relevant) work, but that A may not look at B's work.
Copy & pasting can be really useful for sharing code that has been deliberately 'broken': you can demonstrate / explain code that is working and then introduce deliberate mistakes for students to find and fix when they copy / paste.
I think it is fine, as long as it isn't an essential part. It saves time, and the students can learn from professionals, and can learn new ways of doing something that they never would have thought of. Also, it helps you become a more efficient coder, and if you borrow someone else's functions that is more efficient it makes the rest of your program faster, and it saves a lot of time that could be spent on the main goal, not just some function that was already created before. Don't reinvent the wheel!
Part of the logic here is that I already consider labs to be "suspect" with regards to plagiarism, so the giant brunt of their grades come from tests and quizzes.  The labs, then, are primarily a tool that the kids should use to prepare for the assessment.  I explain this to them often, and point out that not fully understanding their own lab is a great way to shoot themselves in the foot.