Now, to your problem: It appears that Windows and Partition Wizard are interpreting your disk's data structures differently. This could indicate bad data structures written to the disk by Partition Wizard, which you used to prepare it. It's hard to be more precise without seeing detailed output from a program that provides more low-level information, such as my own GPT fdisk (gdisk). If you care to try it, please launch gdisk on the disk, then type p, v, x, o, and q. These commands will show critical information and then exit. For instance:
Absent that detailed information, my first guess is that you've accidentally done one of two things:
If you can't or don't want to use gdisk (or some other tool that provides similar details) to diagnose the problem, then my advice is to redo the disk preparation and copy operations using some other tool. My knowledge of Windows disk-cloning tools is limited, so I don't have any specific suggestion (unless perhaps you were dual-booting with Linux, in which case I'm familiar enough with ntfsclone to assist you with that). Broadly speaking, though, I'd say you should prepare the new disk, be sure that Windows can read it, and then do a file- or filesystem-level clone of the original disk to the new one. I have a sneaking suspicion that your problem was caused by the all-in-one-step method you used, perhaps combined with the fact that you were cloning from MBR to GPT.
If either of the preceding hypotheses is correct, then the problem can be fixed by creating a fresh protective MBR. Several tools can do this. (Perhaps Partition Wizard can; but if so, I don't know how to do it with that tool.) In gdisk, you'd launch the tool on the disk, type x to enter the experts' menu, type n to create a new protective MBR, and type w to save the change (you'll also have to confirm this change). I do not advise doing this without first diagnosing the problem; however, if your original disk is still working OK, taking the chance of trashing the disk if I'm wrong might not be too bad.
A couple of points that aren't directly related to your problem, but that could create problems in the future: