I've been sending replies to the 5 different people that have sent me one of these "no subject with link to phishing site" e-mails that they should change their password from a different computer or from a smartphone, then run an antivirus as well as an anti-spyware such as MalwareBytes or SpyBot before logging back in to Yahoo on their own computer, and also remove Yahoo Toolbar and associated Yahoo apps. What added value do they provide, anyhow?
I strongly suspect the attacker is exploiting some weakness in the Yahoo Accounts infrastructure, possibly related to the Yahoo BIS connector for Blackberry. This does not seem a password cracking attempt, nor a session hijacking.
@tomlogic: I'm wondering if this is coming from the "Always-logged-on" part of Yahoo Toolbar. It wouldn't be difficult to spoof the https connection as coming from a Yahoo server through the scripting of the page, basically requesting the user id in a secure format (although as you pointed out, it could just as easily be the session cookie, since the Yahoo sessions are practically indefinite in length now) in order for the page to know which ad to serve up based on the saved profile. 
I have no knowledge that this is actually the case, but this is how I would do it- you have to uncheck a whole lotta boxes when you're setting up Yahoo mail (and several other 'free' apps) in order to keep from installing that freaking toolbar that does absolutely nothing other than provide a Yahoo search box (who uses that anymore?) and a new e-mail notification - but also stores every single website you visit and everything you type into an unencrypted web form. 
Happened to my yahoo account too. The infection resulted from an email directing to a web link which I inadvertently clicked from my Blackberry. Had to change password, delete the Blackberry connection to Yahoo email and delete my Yahoo contact list just to be on the safe side. Have reported to Yahoo customer support but they only provided standard answers.