Its bare-metal install is a stripped down Debian so can't help you on the Windows Server 2008 side of things, but it truly is a remarkable open source project.
I would recommend VirtualBox. It's capable on many levels, easy to use, and free. And yes, use your current servers until you run out of capacity, which will probably be farther down the road when you expect and you'll have a better idea of what you need to expand and grow.
We use Proxmox : http://pve.proxmox.com/wiki/Main_Page and give each developer their own Linux sandbox as a KVM guest.
Here's another vote for VirtualBox. These days I do nearly all my development on it. The only thing I really don't like about it is the way VMs have to be exported and imported, rather than allow simple file copies to be made. Other than that I find it more impressive than VMware Workstation or Player as it does a better job of running multiple VMs simultaneously on the one host, at least for my particular setup.
If you're looking at setting up a dedicated server for your Devs to use I would recommend VMware's ESXi.  It's free and fairly easy to setup but it does run on the bare metal so you would have to blow away your server or install VMware Server on your 2008 server to play with ESXi before hand.  
Regardless of which VM system you use, take snapshots at appropriate times and you can simply restore back to those points, which is often a lot quicker than replacing the VM with a "base" copy.
Proxmox is open source, has a great web-based admin interface and is easy to configure to have multiple hosts (each serving guests) all administrated within one cluster. If you store your images on a SAN or NAS appliance you can even do live transfer of guests from host-to-host.
I actually use both ESXi and VMWare workstation in my test environment with Workstation on the local developers computer, ESXi running on a QA/internal server, and ESXi running the live site.
VMware workstation, VMware Player and Virtual Box are all good choices if want to run the software on the developers local machine.  This way they can run the same setup as the live server without walking over each others changes.