If you're asking if it's possible to combine three partitions into one, I'm not aware of any tools that will do that job directly. My knowledge might simply be limited, though. (I'm not an expert on Windows partitioning or filesystem tools.) If there are no such tools, the best way to do this is to back up a partition, delete it, resize the original to cover the deleted one's space, and restore the backup. In theory, you could combine your /dev/sda1 and /dev/sda2 in this way, and combine your /dev/sda7 and /dev/sda4 in this way; but those two groups are separated by other partitions, so combining them would involve moving those partitions, which adds hassle and risk. Also, note the phrase "in theory." Windows 7 and 8 installations often cover three or four partitions that are not intended to be merged in this way. I can't guarantee that merging them would cause problems, but I suspect that it would.
You can do this all on one disk by shuffling files utilizing the unallocated space.  Essentially, begin by clearing the first partition(s) for a clean windows install to a new partition you create in the unallocated space.  As a note, it is highly recommended you install windows before Linux if you have both on the same drive.  Feel free to do a search for reasons why.
More broadly, the question I have is: Why? You haven't explained why you think there's a benefit to making either of the types of changes I've outlined (or something else, if you have something else in mind). The main possible benefit I can imagine is in reducing the number of primary partitions being consumed, and that's really only an issue if you were planning to install another OS that requires primary partitions (say, FreeBSD). Understanding why you might want to do this is important because the validity (or lack thereof) of the reason will determine how much effort you should expend in trying to achieve this goal.
Then install Linux and do whatever you want with the leftover free space/ext4 partitions. Linux will install Grub and you'll be good to go.
Granted, my answer assumes you can search and find a way to mess with partitions.  There are many free programs to use if you search for them.  But logistically, that is the way I would shuffle things around.  Backing up any data you can is definitely recommended.
Yes, you can backup the data you have on those NTFS partitions, wipe them and then add the leftover space to the Windows system partition. This would give you a single bootable partition dedicated to Windows and your Windows data. Consider not adding all of the leftover space in case you want to give Linux some love.
And get a live Linux CD made up (I use knoppix) before you do any of it so if you mess things up boot wise, you have a OS and a GUI to fix things and search the internet for reference and download programs and utilities to help you along the way.  Good luck.
If you're asking if it's possible to convert primary partitions into logical partitions, then the answer is "yes," albeit with some caveats. My FixParts program can do the job, as can some Windows-specific tools (I don't recall the details of what Windows programs would work, though). In the case of FixParts, one major caveat is that there must be at least one free sector before each to-be-logical partition. In the case of your specific partitions, some of them might need to be primary partitions. Windows requires at least one primary partition to boot, so at best you could convert two of your primary NTFS partitions into logical partitions.
Then, start extending the windows partition as needed and shuffle all of your windows files into the extended space.  Once you are done shuffling the files forward and setting up the windows partitions,  then you clear a space for your Linux install and do it all over again for your Linux files.