For a new Excel user, I'd stay away from VBA unless necessary. If I understand your question correctly, you can solve it with formulas only. I tried to make them as simple as possible.
Let's say that once you're done, you want to delete the original ID and Parent ID columns. Before doing so, copy the New ID and New Parent ID columns as you usually do. Then, instead of pasting, use the special paste command and choose Values, then click OK. The special paste command  is available with a right click on the destination, among other places.
Given how our data is laid out, it really means "look up the Parent ID in the ID column and when you find an exact match, return its New ID". Right now the New IDs are identical to the original ID, we'll take care of that later. If you need more explanations about the use of functions (like VLOOKUP) in formulas, click the fx button right next the formula bar and then the "more help on this function" help link.
As soon as you type Enter, the formula will be replaced by its result and in that case, the error value #N/A. This is because the first Parent ID can not be found in the ID column. This is logical since the top-most parent has by definition no parent.
Now overwrite a New ID. As in your example, replace 1000000000 with 1. You'll see the New Parent ID updates immediately with the New ID. Play again and replace 1100000000 with 10:
(For all examples I'll use the same trimmed down example data set. First column is column A, column headers are on line 1.)
To deal with that case, we'll upgrade our formula to =IF($B2=0,0,VLOOKUP($B2,$A:$C,3,FALSE)). It reads "if the value in the cell B2 is 0, then return 0, else look up [...]" or "if the Parent ID is 0, then return 0, else look up its New ID".
A last word of caution. I guess you'll be using the New IDs and New Parent IDs, possibly in other workbooks. In that case, you probably want to make a special pasting, to retain only the value, and not the formula.
First, I'd preserve the original data set by working on an image of the source data. Its useful for auditing purpose and it may help you better understand how it works. The columns would look like this:
That's where Excel shines, because once you've done the heavy thinking, it will do all the heavy lifting. In the cell C4, type in this formula: =C3+10. This one adds ten to the value in the cell C3, the cell just above, effectively incrementing the New ID by ten. Copy-paste it up to the end of the column and you're all set:
Then in the first cell of the New Parent ID, enter the following formula: =VLOOKUP($B2,$A:$C,3,FALSE). This formula makes Excel look up vertically. It reads like this: "look up the value of the cell B2 (Parent ID) in the column A (ID column) and when you find an exact match, return the value in the third column (column C, New IDs)".
We'll give a New ID to the child element in the New ID column and its Parent ID will be automatically valued in the New Parent ID column.