As previously suggested, installing monitoring software would greatly help track the source of this problem. Although I have a feeling a lot of your problem is Youtube and other streaming video sites, my siblings are horrible for this as well. It doesn't seem like a lot, but 1 hour of viewing can easily rack up 150mb+ bandwidth on regular videos, not counting if someone is viewing HD videos. HD videos are much worse, more than likely 2 to 3 times the bandwidth per video. 
How about running something like FreeMeter on each PC?  Is it possible bit torrent is running one one of your PCs?  Leaving websites open in your web browser can use up some bandwidth, but not the amount you describe.  I'd try seeing what your individual PC usage is and how their totals compare to those being give by your ISP.
You could always look and see if you have some spyware/adware that is reporting back to it's source, but I don't think it will be the case. I really do not think you have too much of a problem. But if you feel that you still are not sure, setting up a bandwidth monitoring tool on your computers is not a bad idea.
If the ISP provides day-by-day or hour-by-hour usage information perhaps you could try a period of time with no machines running and then several periods with one machine only but doing the normal work for that machine to see if you can identify whether the increase is on one of the machines rather than other(s).
I don't see it as very surprising that you more than doubled you bandwidth and then saw a jump of that type. When you have more bandwidth, it allows you to do more in a shorter period of time. Just a little bit more on time on YouTube every day can show a pretty dramatic increase in how much bandwidth you actually use.
As an extra precaution I'd do some serious spyware/virus/etc scanning.  It's possible one or more of your PCs can be infected by something that is using a lot of bandwidth without your knowledge.
Having an old speed of 512k would probably deter other residents from Youtubing because of constant pauses in the video makes it annoying to watch. The 1.5Mb/s jump would fix that, and I would assume a lot more streaming video is being watched.
If the Macbook was used, you may want to look into the applications installed, make sure no malicious software is running in the background gobbling up bandwidth as well.