Of course, students will still try to get help from each other or from the TAs. In my syllabus, I write some very explicit rules about what kinds of help is and is not allowed. Then, I give them a take-home quiz on the syllabus and it includes 2 case studies ("Jill was working on her lab when ...did a violation of the honor code occur?"). After making this change, and discussing the case studies in class after students hand in the quiz, cheating went down. By the way, I really like this syllabus quiz idea. It lets me spend the first day of class doing some active learning and setting the tone for the semester, rather than going over the syllabus. And it gives students a free quiz grade to force them to actually read the syllabus.
At Denison, our intro class has labs designed around real world problems, and involves lab reports. This makes it a lot harder to cheat. We're not saying "implement quicksort", we're saying "write a simulation to check Tom Schelling's Nobel prize winning work, then write a 2-3 page paper explaining what you found." 
In addition to all of the great answers here, one further tool to consider is MOSS (Measure of Software Similarity), which has been released for free to educators by Stanford: https://theory.stanford.edu/~aiken/moss/
Paramount to all of this though is creating a classroom where students genuinely want to work through programming challenges. They have to know they will receive support when they struggle and hit a road block. I do my best to be available via office hours, especially before a big assignment is due, and sometimes knowing that they have a place to look for help other than Google makes a big difference.
As I prepare students for the AP Exam, I have to give them practice with written responses on their code for the Explore Task. I plan on assigning reflection components and looking more closely at comments that document student thinking and trying to grade process over product.
I just got a chance to read the article you linked to. As a teacher of CS50 AP, I can attest to the numerous solutions that are available online for all things CS50. It's almost unfair for a student trying to remain ethical when Google suggests appending "solution" to a query like "cs50 mario." Even a search without "solution" will often return a link to code on GitHub before the actual CS50 pset specs.
It can currently analyze code in C, C++, Java, C#, Python, Visual Basic, Javascript, FORTRAN, ML, Haskell, Lisp, Scheme, Pascal, Modula2, Ada, Perl, TCL, Matlab, VHDL, Verilog, Spice, MIPS assembly, a8086 assembly, a8086 assembly, MIPS assembly, and HCL2.