the obvious hardware will be something like a rack mount server with hot swap trays and dual xeon based type processors. the use of the data is for archives of information, files will be made up of small file sizes.
i currently have a client that will be adding replicated data from satellite locations in the number of approximately 80TB per year. with this said in year 2 we will have 160TB and so on year after year. i want to do some sort of raid 10 or raid 6 setup. i want to keep the servers to approximately 4u high and rack mounted. all suggestions welcome on a replication strategy. we will be wanting to have one instance of the data in house and the other to be co-located (any suggestions on co-locate sites too?).
You may have to determine the upgrades. Lets say you want to set this up and run it on this hardware for 5 years, your client is going to pay a lot for this unused space. I say unused space because the overhead for the next 5 years isn't going to be used and isn't going to be cheap let say you would choose a SAN. Although this solution is tempting, (ie: buying a large SAN with 1/5 of disks used.) BUT, in 3 years, you may be able to buy the same hardware but there is less chance you may buy the new and (most of the time bigger, let say 6TB disks). 
HP Lefthand storage arrays will do all of what you want. RAID 10, or 6, or 60 (probably the best choice given the data density you'll need). They do off-site replication, data deduplication, and you can have your choice of iSCSI or FC connections. The only drawback is the price, be prepared to pay for all that storage and features.
For most situations I highly recommend going with a "professional" solution as it will be supported and more likely to continue to be supported 4+ years from now.
I suggest you call some software vendor like Commvault and Symantec and also Dell(EMC), HP, ... for the hardware solution that they will suggest. Make sure it is clear with your client what kind of restore time they need and are willing to pay, restoring that much of data is a couple of days of downtime. Hope this may help.
If on the other hand you plan for 18 months to 30 months upgrades, they may save a lot. Hardware changes fast and SAN or storage technology move fast too. In the last year, most vendor now offer SAN deduplication which by example takes a 512kb into a 128kb encrypted hash. If this storage solution is for disaster recovery, depending on the budget, tapes sill does a good job. They are slower to restore but still works and does not cost much. If the data need to be accessed, either on a daily basis or from times to times, tapes are probably not a great idea.
If you're willing to roll you're own solution; you might consider a Chanbro case, 4U can hold 48 SFF drives (with 500GB drives thats 20+ TB per 4U), and they have SAS expander boards that allow an empty chassis (full of drives) to be used as an external case.