Really good rendering quality can indeed be achieved without them, depending on your definition of quality. You can stick to CPU-based graphics, if you don't mind those graphics being quite slow. Or, you can use the GPU and used the old fixed-function pipeline, which gives you a subset of the shader functionality. Whether that subset is "really good" or not is subjective - it was certainly good enough for many years - but you miss out on some interesting modern rendering techniques as a result, as the fixed function pipeline has no way of performing the completely arbitrary transformations on vertices and pixels that shaders can perform.
Once upon a time all graphics were done in software. This was very flexible, but not very efficient.
I don't really know when vertex and/or pixel shaders became available for consoles and computers, but what could we do without them ? I don't really understand what is achievable with shaders and what is not without them, and what are the true advantages while using them.
I think a really good rendering quality can be achieved without using them, but I'm not sure which one...
That doesn't mean you can't create great looking games without shaders though. AFAIK Torchlight only uses fixed pipeline and looks awesome. Also: If you're doing 2d graphics, you'll probably be fine with fixed pipeline only.  
Now that graphics are faster, and technology has improved (or become more affordable, depending on how you look at it), some flexibility can be added back into the graphics pipeline. Shaders give you this flexibility. The syntax is quite low-level because the hardware it is aimed at is also quite low-level. It's a compromise.
The fixed pipeline is rather limited. Something as simple as Phong-Shading already requires a shader (the shading capabilities of the fixed pipeline end with Gouraud-Shading). The possibilities that open up with shaders are huge. Some of them are: better shadowing-techniques, ambient-occlusion, normal-mapping, etc.
I guess the advantages of using shaders are performance and better flexibility, but on the other hand, I am quite speechless when looking at the syntax...
In the mid 90s add-on graphics cards became popular because they vastly accelerated graphics, but at the cost of flexibility. Writing pixels became a lot cheaper but reading them became much harder and/or slower.