Not sure if this is an option or was only a co-incidence that my VPN issue resolved itself in a different way.
You might try reinstalling your VPN WAN miniports per this knowledge base article.  It fixed a similar scenario for me this week.
But I had an issue of my laptop just one day stopping to connect with no known changes on either end or on network hardware.
It is not clear to me if machines that have been upgraded to XP SP2 are also subject to the new default. I guess they are, and if NAT is indeed used in your situation then I assume the older machine is running 2000 or earlier? Or if upgraded machines are not subject to the new default, then maybe the older machine was installed with XP prior to SP2, and then upgraded to XP SP2 or later? (Please provide some details for later readers.)
(The required mappings from the first lines of the Wikipedia quote makes it impossible to have multiple VPN clients behind the same cheap home router that uses manual port mapping. The router can then only apply that mapping towards one of the clients. But I assume most modern home routers will support multiple clients nowadays.)
I have another machine sitting next to this one with the VPN connection configured exactly the same, connecting just fine over the same wifi network, so I'm convinced that there is no server or firewall problem.  The VPN works fine.  This machine simply can't connect to it given the correct credentials and configuration.
I'm building a new machine and everything is working correctly, except that I can't log on to my VPN.  It hangs at the "Verifying username and password..." step, then returns after about 30 seconds claiming Error 721.
If the server uses NAT, then see Microsoft's KB 885407, "The default behavior of IPsec NAT traversal (NAT-T) is changed in Windows XP Service Pack 2".
My solution was to physically connect the laptop to the network I was trying to VPN into, then subsequent hiberantes and fresh reboots via a VPN connection started to work again.