The DRBD ran in a VM gets synced with a DRBD service running on the file backup server; the file backup server is NOT virtualized purposefully so we have bare metal access to all files given XenServer is the biggest quirk we generally deal with.
Overall it is HA enough for our SMB / Home use; down time during a catastrophic failure of the primary server is 10-20 min or less to fully back online and no loss of data; DRBD means the VMs are up to date!  Plus, outside of the primary server which is pretty robust, there is a ton of overall redundancy.  Most of the primary server is redundant in-and-of-it-self so it pretty much gives us triple redundancy or better for just about every piece of hardware you can think of (PS, RAM, CPU, HDD, Controllers, NICs, etc) besides the motherboard(s) which is only double redundancy (primary/secondary Xen Hosts).
First, all VMs on the  SharedDRBD SR are shutdown while the secondary XenServer host is powered on.  The DRBD on the file backup server is made primary and mounted as needed.  Then, the SharedDRBD SR is pointed to the file backup server and VMs are started up on the secondary server; XenCenter doesn't even realize it is serving the VMs from a new location because it sees the same SR with the same data.  The VMs are fired back up and things are back and running.
There is alot more to it in terms of configuration, and arrays, network topology, etc; but the jist is DRBD is served in a VM back to its own host. 
I have been working at setting this up in much of a way you describe and it works great! (XenServer)
There is a secondary server that is virtualized but has no local storage except for what is required for the host.  This server is part of a Xen pool with the primary server to simplify failover.  Failover is currently manual but fast and easy.
I setup an old but capable server as the primary host, this runs a console only VM for DRBD.  This VM then serves a "SharedDRBD" SR back to the Xen Host via NFS.  The rest of the working VMs providing services run on the SharedDRBD SR.  The VM's DRBD dev is on its own VDI on a MDADM RAID 1.  This SharedDRBD SR hosts the rest of the VMs for various services with a local larger RAID10 array for bulk filestorage.