The actual software is VERY easy to use, certainly for a beginner, it's pretty much all point and click but you will 'hit the wall' with it much more quickly than if you used a Windows or Linux server but then their learning curve is much higher too. Oh and of course there's no client licence costs with the Mac too which can really help.
If you're deploying an OSX based system, I'd strongly recommend using Timemachine for your backups versus DIY solutions built around rsync. It's built in, surprisingly good at what it does, and all it needs is enough local disk to play with (or remote disk if you invest in a Time Capsule).
If you're looking for ways to find cheap storage, this is not the place for it. Product recommendations are specifically off-topic in the FAQ.
For a small environment a Mac Mini is just fine, it has no hardware redundancy (PSU/fans etc.) but it'll do just fine.
As for the TB/FW question, so long as you stick to a FW800 enclosure and ensure you use the same software RAID (or better yet hardware RAID if the enclosure will support it) then you'll be fine. Don't be tempted to go for one of these cheapo NAS boxes with one or two 1Gbps NICs, a FW800 enclosure will be much quicker overall even though its raw signalling rate is slightly lower.
Typically this kind of question often falls inbetween us and superuser.com but you're building this for a small business so I think it deserves to be here.
However, I second Chopper's recommendation of a FW800 based system. It has enough disk bandwidth to deal with multiple drives (even if one of 'em is your TimeMachine drive). You'll want to spend some money on this, as good enclosures are worth it.
Oh and don't forget that OSX Server already comes with Apache already, but I would suggest you put some time into thinking exactly how your whole DNS/domain setup is going to work as with OSX Server it's best to get that right first time than having to keep going back tweaking. Other than that it's all very easy and by the time you outgrown that box Apple may have an appropriate machine out for you to move to - fingers crossed anyway.
Firstly make sure you go for the server-specific build, it's more expensive but has an i7 CPU and dual disks for use as a software-driven RAID1 pair. It obviously comes with OSX Server too.