When I add drivers/packages/applications, a new image is produced  or for each machine that I will deploy all the patches will be apllied every time? In other words, is there a first step in which an "updated" iamage is produced and then deployed on several machines or every time MDT makes the patches will be installed on each machine in the deployment stage?
MDT does not update the images (.WIMs) with the packages when the share is updated. The packages are injected into the image at the time of deployment. In your deployment task sequence, see the apply packages step under Preinstall.
One thing I would like to make clear though is that you do not need multiple deployment shares for different configurations of packages, drivers, or applications. You can use a single deployment share to deploy to hundreds of makes and models with different hardware, different applications, and different configurations of packages. An excellent example requiring different packages is where an organization requires different language packs depending on geographical location. In this scenario, MDT can be used to select between different selection profiles each with different language packs. The same solution can be used to manage drivers where a single conglomerate driver store might present conflicts. Selection profiles are explained in this blog post.
Recently, we moved to MDT. I can see that in deployment workbench you can add packages, drivers and applications right on top of a set of images provided by WDS ( or from a local WIM storage ).
In the first case, is it possible to obtain a WIM image with all the stuffs without deploying it and keep it for example for offline update or for a backup instead to reapply all the patches every time ?
Presently, I'm using dism command line tool in order to pre-patch the WIM images with the downloaded packages. thus, I can put the freshly updated WIM image on the WDS server in order to distribute the new (patched) OS image.
See this blog post from Michael Niehaus on Creating a fully-patched image using MDT 2010 Lite Touch, it covers the scenario quite thoroughly.