I took my first senior position about a year after I started in the IT field and it was a trial by fire (that feels like it never really ended). While I did learn a lot in that first position, I never had a senior admin that I could work with and seek guidance from so I only had myself to validate what I was doing and what I thought I knew. I've been in the field for 11 years now and I still have lingering confidence issues, and there are times when I question whether I really know what I'm doing or not.
That said - the number of lnux distros for USERS (i.e. does not even take servers into account) is too high. Consider getting rid of Linux altogether if it makes financial sense (Windows is not that expensive). Same for Macs, long term - especially Macs. There is a reason mac has a small corporate market share.
Start by not changing anything. STart documenting at least for yourself and think about changes. Give it a month, then slowly propose changes. But do not jump in head start. How high up the food chain will you be?
I do agree that you should go in, document, diagram, assess before making any changes.  Based on the question, if you were going to work for me as a Sr. anything and I saw you asking Jr. questions like this, you probably would have your offer letter rescinded.
That said, Windows - check licencing. Do they buy bulk (SELECT PLUS) or blue boxes in stores (which surprising amounts of stupid sysadmins do)?
Don't pat yourself on the back too vigorously when you hit the mark, but also don't kick yourself too hard when you foul up.
Consider NOT doing backups for users. I have done so in a couple of companies. Important stuff belongs on a server. Point. Documents folder in windows redirected etc. So the user workstation is pretty irrelevant (fast setup anyway). No need to back it up.
With that said, here's my advice (for good or bad): Moving in to your first senior position can be daunting and nerve racking. Take your time, breathe, be patient, don't rush to make changes or to make judgements on how things are or how they should be. Immerse yourself in learning about the technology in use and why it's in use. Seek to understand the company and the business it's in.
I don't agree that you should try to get rid of Mac/Linux.  Unless those OS choices are negatively affecting those users productivity, it would make more sense to allow them to use the OS that grants the most productivity which in turn leads to higher profits, which makes your boss and the company happy.