But you could then probably simplify the device a lot if e.g. it has only one computer connected to it then there's more functionality there than it needs.
But also, they can get the name of router, or switch, even when they technically might not really need to do any routing or switching.  For example, aside from juniper and cisco, who sell routers that do a lot of routing, the items sold as routers by others, are technically routers, but only just about. They have 2 interfaces and on one of the interfaces is a network switch.
What you have are devices with multiple functions..  routing is a function, modem is a function, PPP is a function. 
Many of these devices, particularly older ones, you could typically telnet to them and get a console up, 'cos they not only run linux.  So a Router might have a whole routing table in there but really since it only has 2 interfaces it could probably get pretty far (i'm not sure how far but perhaps pretty far), by simply saying if a packet comes in one side then send it out the other side. (unless it's destined for local).  It perhaps doesn't technically need a whole routing table to do that.  Maybe similar for "bridging" mode.  If going from scratch from an electronics background you might be able to make it simpler particularly if it only has one computer connected to it.
A network bridge and a network switch are functionally the same thing.   Some say a bridge often has 2 ports and the network mediums differ, whereas a switch tends to have multiple ports and the network mediums are the same.   The logic of what it does is the same though.   So if you look up switching, that's the function.  
I recommend the book 'computer networking first step' by wendell odom.  He has some ugly analogies but you can skip the analogies and he has some good stuff.
I am using broadband connection via BSNL and I get service in a twisted pair. ADSL technology is used for broadband connectivity. ADSL modem normally have two modes of operation (Bridge mode and PPPoE mode). I would like to know what is happening in the modem when it functions as Bridge mode. I would like to substitute it with a circuit or a PCB module. Any help would be great.
Also, I suggest you look into a PCI DSL modem.. That is a bridging dsl modem. As an electronics person, that may interest you.  And when they say bridging that also means it isn't doing any PPP(logging in), so the PPP is then done on the computer from windows. As is it when a modem is put in bridge mode.. or it can be done by a downstream device.. e.g. by a "router" plugged into the modem where the router supports ppp.