The backup is the easy part.  As it uses shadow copy you can take the backup image from within Windows.  Once completed, simply copy the image files onto a USB stick (or break them up with a file splitter and copy onto multiple sticks).  Simply download the software from the link above and run it from within Windows.
Since your planning on switching to an linux variant anyway just build your usb stick for your install then boot from it and before installing linux dd your existing disk to an external device and then install your new os.
A free program that you might use is http://www.paragon-software.com/home/db-express/download.html. You will need to create a rescue boot CD as .iso file on disk and then image it to the thumb drive. But first check if your BIOS can boot from the thumb drive and also try rebooting from it, before you wipe out the Windows partition. Also, don't resize the Windows partition if you wish to later use the image (has to be same size or larger).
There are many solutions out there, this is just one of them.  It is based around the free DriveImage XML software.
The restore is a little more difficult.  You need to create a bootable USB stick as you do not have a CD drive.  Couple of good options I found:
Depending on the size of your USB stick, you might need more than one.  If it's a big one then I guess there is nothing stopping you creating the live USB stick first and then copying the image files straight onto it somewhere that would be accessible from the live Windows install.
The best way is to take an image of the hard drive on an external USB disk (I don't know if your thumb drive is large enough for this).
You could just get a CD/DVD drive that attaches via cable and then dual boot you current OS and the Linux you want to run. Then you could test the Linux to see if it works and if it does, you could later re-install it as the main operating system. If a CD/DVD drive is out of your price range, just download ISO file for the Linux you want to use, and use PowerISO to extract it.