the class is not artificial at all. It can rather be seen as an example for the fact that LFP+C cannot
Jean-Yves Girard, Andre Scedrov, and Philip Scott. Bounded linear logic: A modular approach to polynomial-time computability. Theoretical Computer Science, 97(1):1–66, 1992.
PTIME was based on a seemingly artificial class of graphs, though. Of course, it was constructed for the particular
The resulting logic LFP+rank can express strictly more than LFP+C, in fact, there is no known PTIME property that LFP+rank cannot express. 
You want to have a look at what some people call Grädel's Theorem. You can find it in Papadimitriou's book "Computational Complexity" (it's Theorem 8.4 in page 176) or in Grädel's original paper.
Hence Dawar, Grohe, Holm and Laubner extended logics by operators from linear algebra, for example by an operator to define the rank of a definable matrix.
Even FO+rk is surprisingly powerful, it can express deterministic and symmetric transitive closure. It is still open 
In a nutshell, Grädel's Theorem is to P what Fagin's Theorem is to NP. It states that on the class of finite structures with a successor relation, the collection of polynomial-time decidable properties coincides with those expressible in the Horn-fragment of existential second-order logic. These are the sentences of second-order logic of the form
Depending on what you mean by "capture," Soft Linear Logic and Polynomial Time by Yves Lafont may be of interest.  There is a 1-1 correspondence to proofs in this logic and PTIME algorithms that take a string as input and output 0 or 1.
where $R$ is a sequence of second-order relation variables, $x$ is a sequence of first-order variables, and $\phi$ is a quantifier-free formula that, when written in CNF form, is a conjunction of $R$-Horn clauses (i.e. clauses that have at most one non-negated atom involving the variables in $R$).
The Wikipedia article on Linear Logic is here.  It's not a fixpoint logic.  The intuition of "classical logic over $C^*$ algebras instead of boolean algebras" is the easiest for me to grasp.