The structure of parseline() is so deeply nested and has so many return points and un-elsed ifs that I really can't follow the logic of it. Read The Zen of Python and keep it wholly.
Long lines are hard to read, especially on StackExchange. Fortunately, splitting within parenthesis is natural and preferred, thus:
Finally, iptables is notoriously hairy. I strongly suggest that you use python-iptables or at least study its class structure. You might also want to look at Uncomplicated Firewall as it is designed to abstract iptables into something most humans can understand. It doesn't handle all possible uses, but it makes the typical cases comprehensible.
you should drop the #.split('\n'). Also, following PEP-8, put spaces after argument separating commas.
I had to edit your entry because the class methods were not properly indented; this usually means that you are using a mix of tabs and spaces. Tell your editor to forget that the TAB character exists and to use only spaces, there are instructions for most editors on how to make it pretend that the TAB key behaves like you expect without putting literal \t characters in your source code.
The class name Fwall is terrible, if you mean Firewall call it that. If you mean that it is a container of FirewallRules then say so. Names are extremely important.
is equivalent. To bang on the "names are important" drum, every dictionary has k and v, using more descriptive names would tell me what the meaning of the keys and values are. For that matter I have no idea was a dipolicy or dicolumns are, they might be related or parallel lists but I don't know. You tend to use if len(item)==0 when if item means the same thing.
If getrules() is not part of the public class interface, convention suggests naming it _getrules which tells the reader that it is expected to be used only by the class itself. Having print statements is fine for debugging, but a well behaved library should assume that there is no stdout and return lists of strings in production code.
You use iteritems() unnecessarily as the standard iteration behavior of a dictionary is now assumed. Where you have for k,v in self.dicolumns.iteritems(): the line
There are violations of PEP-8 throughout and there are no PEP-257 docstrings. It sounds petty, but these mean the difference between an easy read and a hard one.