Now we decided to give it another chance and when we plugged it on again, mb leds and power button led were on and i could even power it on. Ofcourse we got boot errors for the components missing so I tried to power it back off by pressing for a few seconds the power button but it didn't work and i had to directly unplug it. Now we are back at the beginning because the server is dead again. 
Considering this do you think that the power backplane is the problem? maybe it's capacitors  decharged during this last 3 months and that's the reason why I could power it on for a few minutes?
I have power issues with my HP ProLiant ML370 G6 server after Ram upgrade. This server has been running without interruption for a very long time and when we decided to power it off to upgrade RAM we couldn't power  it on again. It looks like th MB recives no power. In the trobleshooting process we replaced one of our redundant power supplies with a new one. Nothing changed. All leds on the MB are off. Power supply leds are off. Though power supply fans are spinning. I've already tried basic trobleshooting operations for this kind of problems (change power outlet and cable, disconnect any internal component like ram or hard drives). In the end we stopped even tring to power it on and we abbandoned the server with all its components diconnected in a storage room for 3 months. 
A bestpractice is to always restart a system before an maintenance, to know the state of the system. As usually if the uptime is more than a year you could have bad condensator on the mainboard, but having the server at off, and restarted reset those components, that allow you to know if your server is still functional before an intervention inside it.
I also have to tell you that the power button seems damaged. It looks like its always pressed in. Do you think that a damaged power button could cause the total interruption of power to the MB? I thought that when the power button is damaged maybe you cannot turn the server on but you can atleast see some leds on the MB on.
I do a lot of upgrade for customer and I usually told them to restart the day before I come to make sure I dont fall on a bad surprise after the maintenance.