I found PBIS good enough. It allowed me to set the options I cared about (default home dir, assume domain for logon, set group with access, etc). 
i'm using Winbind + Kerberose as well and works fine for years, but now i'm migrating all to Pbis as i've been using it on some machines for years as well and i'm satisfied with it. but as you i like to have native solutions as well, there for i will start testing sssd integrations as mentioned in this document from RedHat. 
PBIS Open is what I'm leaning toward. It's what VMware uses in the backend of vShield, and it works pretty well. It only requires a few commands to get set up, it supports AD groups, and there's no secondary identity management system - it talks directly to AD. The only reason for me not going that route is that I like native solutions, and if there's a better way to do it that is already included in modern distros, I'm all for it.
My company relies very heavily on AD. Nay, we are married to it at this point, and as a Fortune 10 company, that's not changing. However, we have a lot of *nix systems in our environment (mostly RHEL and SLES), and I have yet to find a good mechanism for integrating with Active Directory as an identity source. At the very least, I need something to provide the following:
What am I missing, what are you using, and what is the "new hotness" that I haven't accounted for to solve the Linux AD integration headache?
Also, in RHEL-7.1 (upstream 1.12+), the SSSD gained the capability to do access control checks using GPO policies.
I would really like to hear what you mean by "real AD groups" when talking about SSSD. The newer versions of SSSD don't require the groups to have POSIX attributes and mostly read the group memberships from TokenGroups if the AD provider is used.
Before you laugh at me and say, "If you want Active Directory, use Windows" or tell me to use Google, hear me out.
Centrify . . . is just ugly. I've never been a real fan. Also, for my company's needs, we can't use Centrify-Express, so it's not free, and there's no unlimited license. However, it's the best solution that we've found, and I'm desperate to find something else.
SSSD+SELinux sounded great. It's nasty to set up, but it's flexible, native, and supported by most modern distros. The only thing it lacks (from what I understand) is support for AD groups. Many articles suggest leveraging FreeIPA or something similar to add this functionality, but upon further reading, this violates requirement 5 and basically creates a middle-man identity service. I'm not interested in basically duplicating AD or setting up trust to a secondary identity service.
I use the Open Source version of PBIS. In version 6, I found that if I was not logging on to a machine for a while (like months), when I would log on, it would time out. At least it was the case for many machines. I haven't had that issue with version 8.
Other kludge options I've tossed around include using Puppet (which we use) to push out /etc/password,shadow,group files to endpoints, but that requires development, it's incredibly indirect, and I could see something going south badly. A better option would be adding SSSD+SELinux to the Puppet idea. While it would simplify the disaster, it's still a disaster.
There is a Puppet module to install it (my version of it: https://github.com/etlweather/puppet-pbis ).