The trick is that, since this is software RAID, the RAID info is stored on the drive.  I only restored the partition, not the full drive, and I left the MBR as is (using the clonezilla advanced options). Make a comment if other options worked for you.
Running "dmraid -ay" should activate all the RAID arrays if your array is MBR-formatted. This is usually not the case for UEFI machines which are GPT-formatted, you need to add the command "kpartx -a" after running dmraid to activate GPT arrays.
See here for a recent Clonezilla forum thread about using it (or rather, NOT using it) with firmware-based arrays.
Edit:  I'm testing with a Dell Precision 390, with the Intel Matrix RAID built into the motherboard.
Unplug one of the drives.  Then boot clonezilla.  The RAID array will be "degraded".  Then restore the image to the active drive, shutdown, plug the drive back in, and the array will rebuild.  I'm currently watching a copy I just made this way and it seems to have worked great.
However, even after RAID is activated, you need to manage the backups or restoration manually. This means it's up to you to issue the backup command from command prompt. Clonezilla does not allow selecting volumes from /dev/mapper, but it's not an issue if you call the backup command like partimage and point it at the volume directly. You will also need to backup the disk parameters, that should be doable using gdisk.
You can manually activate RAID support in Clonezilla. YMMV on success. The clonezilla image must have kpartx and dmraid as well as the necessary modules. 
From what I understand your HP system has an Asus-made MB in it with an Intel ICH9R chipset.  If you used that to make your RAID 0 then Clonezilla can't do anything with it.
During my Google search for this problem, I saw a post that I thought was interesting, and worked for me when I tried it. (Caution: this only works for RAID 1 and possibly RAID 10).  
Can't help you with Clonezilla as it appears from the previous poster that it simply will not work.  If that's the case, use something else.  Want free (as in no license fee)?  Then you can use Microsoft's ImageX program.  Image your old system with that to an external drive, then restore it.  ImageX is a command line tool that is freely available within the Windows Automated Installation Kit.  Using that kit, you can (if necessary) create a WinPE boot DVD that includes imagex and the drivers for your RAID controller.  If windows can see the drive as you want it, you can deploy the image (note: if your Vista install (or whatever version of Windows you use) doesn't have the appropriate drivers for the RAID controller IN windows, then it may not boot at all - it would be wise to install the drivers BEFORE making the image).  There could still be other issues - a possible need to make the drive partition "active"... but the imaging part of the problem should be solved with this solution.