You can merge any blocks that happened to be the same, even if you not beginning with snapshot. You can tell it to check if the data area has some duplicate blocks and, you guess it, store them only once. This feature called deduplication, but I don't see you are using it, because you have DEDUP 1.00x in zpool list. Also, beware, this feature consumes a LOT of memory.
Also a side note. I see something called "virtual backup" on your screenshot. Don't do backups like this. Don't rely on same logical structure. You'll lose that backup together with data it has to protect if some rare error in your stack (NTFS in virtual disk over NTFS on base disk over ZFS pool) destroys on-disk structures, and it is impossible to do forensic recovery of data from such double cake. It is often best to store backups into a simplest possible structure which is independent from main storage, i.e. a separate disk, just bare partition table without advanced volume management, simplest file system. That's easier to access and recover in any case.
I'd begin your case with booting your suspicious Windows VM some disk backup software which does backups by taking sector-by-sector copies and do a complete backup of virtual disk from within of that VM (i.e. backup what Windows sees). Or/and backup virtual disk images. That will allow to at least not to lose data you certainly can access. Then act as you described.
If you make snapshot with ZFS, it will be CoW snapshot. In the beginning, ZFS would know that data is the same and just store same data on disk once. When some copy gets a block written to, that block gets copied and stored in some other place (that's copy on write, CoW), then one of copies gets changed. From on now, even if you revert copies to have same data, they wouldn't be merged in general case.
In general, ZFS could easily achieve 1.2:1 compression of VM disk. It also is smart and doesn't save any zero blocks on disk. Databases compress better. In general, I wouldn't be surprised if 4Tb virtual disk of some good-compressible will fit into array with 1.8T physical space.