2012 R2 still comes with the full Windows 7 backup feature, while 8.1 has removed most of this feature. If you need it, server is the better choice.
Also Windows 8.1 makes it harder to use a local account and wants you to use a Microsoft-account to log on to your machine. By default server does not use Microsoft accounts.
This means that by default the server should be lighter on resources and work smoother (and probably somewhat be more secure, since there are less services running on it).
Having said all that, Windows 8 is optimized for desktop applications while server has been tweaked to run background applications such as Windows Services. So for a desktop PC, Windows Pro is the much better choice unless you have a real good reason to use server.
My guess is that the kernel is same for both and they use the same drivers? Is that a correct assumption? The only reason I was thinking of Server 2012 was due the availability of Hyper-V
I'm building a new machine which will be used primarily for development and a little bit for photo editing. I am wondering if there will be any benefits in using Windows Server 2012 R2 as my workstations OS instead of Windows 8.1.
According to Wikipedia the server versions (starting with 2008) require about half the memory and HD space comparing to the workstation versions.
If you need any of the Server services such as DNS, DHCP or others and have no second machine to run these on, this could be a reason to use the server version.
Both Windows Server(2010, 2010, 2012, 2012R2) and Windows( Vista, 7,8, 8.1) all use the same driver model.  There isn't anything that the Hyper-V feature within Windows Server 2012R2 can do that Windows 8 cannot do at least not for somebody interesting in using it for programming or photo editing.
One main advantage I see in server versions (which seems to annoy everyone above me in this thread), is that they have nearly all options the workstation versions have - you just need to install them yourself.
The Windows Server in general makes a horrible desktop operating system, it actually does not have your tradtional desktop interface unless you enable it. I can't speak to the driver interoperability but Windows Server 2012R2 is only 64-bit so it would only accept signed 64-bit drivers. I feel from based on what technical facts I understand about Window Server itself its safe to assume it will accept the desktop drivers.
I've been coding, gaming and managing server farms on my Server-2008r2 and I never had any problems with drivers, performance, etc.
I've also heard that server versions are built in such a manner that makes it more stable (but I don't know how to confirm it - ideas are welcome).
Previously a superior IIS version and Hyper-V were reasons to use server, but these are now just as good on the workstation OS.
Server 2012R2 does have the modern tile interface, but it doesn't come with any of the Windows Store Apps that Windows 8.x comes with. It doesn't even have a store tile. I think you can get these features after adding the "Desktop experience" feature. But if you don't like these apps, Windows server hides them all.
While you can make a Windows Server into a desktop operating system it really isn't designed for that purpose.  You likely will encounter software that refuses to install.  Since you are willing to deal with the Modern UI you might as well just install Windows 8.1