Our very best customer in this regard called us today in fact, to complain that her internet wasn't working. It wasn't us that cut her off this time, so we asked if anything had changed on her phone line (she has ADSL), to which she answered "no". Well, that means a trouble ticket and lots of fun diagnostics, so we told her we'd call her back in 15 minutes instead of tying her up on the phone. 15 minutes later, we call the number she's had in our database for years, and get the message "This number is no longer in service."
But the ones that are the very worst, high maintenance clients here are the deadbeats who don't want to pay, who think that they're entitled to complain to the BBB because we cut them off for lack of payment (ever), or try to sweet-talk us into giving them free service forever (and yes, I've seen people try all three tactics, sometimes all at once).
I work at an ISP, and when you're dealing with any member of the public with $10 and a dream, believe me the tech support line gets to use the phrase "But we didn't sell you that equipment/software/website, so we can't support it" on a regular basis. Most of the worst story ever stories I've heard here and elsewhere are so routine to me (since I used to work that line in ages past) that I've basically come to expect that kind of behaviour from humanity.
A new user, having just transferred in from another branch and being given a new desktop, rings to ask, "Can IT please install Windows Explorer on this computer? I had it on my last one and need it to organise my photos..."
My boss tells an amusing anecdote about one of my coworkers, a Chinese man with a thick accent.  Smart guy, but hard to understand on the phone sometimes (I'm an expert in Engrish).  So one day he gets a tech-support call from an Indian guy, and is having a hard time getting the guys name and problem description.  After about 5 minutes of listening to the Chinese guy on the phone, my boss, native English speaker, offers to help.  He gets on the phone "Can I help you?" to which the poor Indian goes, "Oh thank God!" 
I once got to rollout some software we'd developed to 110 of my company's offices, literally all around the world. Everyone we met was wonderful except this one woman in Frankfurt. After the initial deployment she would stamp her feet and complain about the smallest of details, she'd never do anything over the phone, so we had to keep revisiting. I had to return back to that city five further times in the space of a month just to change the odd thing here and there!