Great question that had me doing some reading to try and figure it out. Wish I could say I have an answer... but maybe some hints.
So to conclude: the interrupt handling seems fine and defaults for Debian with 2.6.38/3.0.x kernel seem to perform acceptably.
I can at least answer your question, "should it be able to live on single interrupt per packet". I think the answer is yes, based on a very busy firewall that I have access to:
To followup: with the NAT and conntrack modules unloaded plus minimized iptables ruleset, we get terrific performance. The IPVS load balancer has done over 900 Mbps / 150 kpps. This is while still using the same Broadcom bnx2 chipsets.
As you can see, some very high packet per second counts, and no special ethtool tweaking was done on this machine. Oh... Intel chipset, though. :\
Certainly given the CPU, chipset and bus capabilities in comparison to such a low amount of traffic you have there's no reason whatsoever for you to NEED any form of interrupt management. We have multiple RHEL 5.3 64-bit machines with 10Gbps NICs and their interrupts aren't too bad at all, this is 100 times less.
Having said all that, my gut feel is that you're somehow hardware-bound here... as in a firmware or interop bug of some kind.
The only thing that was done was some manual irq balancing with /proc/irq/XXX/smp_affinity, on a per-interface basis. I'm not sure why they chose to go that way instead of with irqbalance, but it seems to work.
Obviously you have a fixed configuration (I use HP's blades which are pretty similar) so swapping out NICs for Intels is now an easy option but what I would say is that I'm starting to spot a number of similar problems around this forum and elsewhere with that particular Broadcom NIC. Ever the SE sites themselves had some problems with this kind of inconsistency and swapping to Intel NICs absolutely helped.
Definitely I would prefer to use Intel NICs so that we can use standard Debian packages. Fighting the non-free bnx2 firmware has been a huge waste of time.
What I'd recommend is picking a single blade and adding an Intel based adapter to that one machine, you'll obviously have to add a interconnect or whatever IBM call them to get the signal out but try the same software setup but with this other NIC (probably disable the Broadcom if you can). Test this and see how you get on, I know what I've described needs a couple of bits of extra hardware but I'm imagine your IBM rep will happily loan you them. It's the only way to know for sure. Please let us know what you find out, I'm genuinely interested if there's a problem with these NICs, even if it's an odd edge-case. As an aside I'm meeting with Intel and Broadcom next week to discuss something entirely unrelated but I'll certainly discuss it with them and let you know if I find anything of interest.
I also thought about the math required to answer your question, but I think there are way too many variables. So... to summarise, in my opinion, the answer is no, I don't think you can predict the outcomes here, but with enough data capture you should be able to tweak it to a better level. 