If the coax link isn't reliable it needs to be fixed. You should test the link by running a few tests across. If the C2 side isn't easily accessible you can set up a remotely controlled machine with an independent (mobile) Internet uplink you can connect in on. If these tests show up everthing is fine the problem is the C2 device, otherwise it's either one of the converters or the cable (which is somewhat unlikely if it's a single cable used bidirectionally).
The setup seems to work at times, I have had it running for several hours. But then at another time, without changing the configuration, the connection seems to become unstable. Since it looked like a connection issue I used wireshark to see what is being transmitted over the network. 
When the system is running ok I can see all the packages from C2 reaching C1. When there are connection issues I can see that C2 is broadcast the command 
This feels like it has lost it's connection. To verify that it is not a power issue I have checked the uptime of C2 and this is OK. It has been running continuously over the connection problems. 
Final comment: I have placed a router between the devices on the C1 side. The connecting outages till occur but it seems to be less frequent. Is a router able to stabilize connections like these?
Seems simple but here is the catch: There is about 1 kilometer of coax cable connecting those two devices. The connection between C1 and C2 is through a ethernet over coax converter which also transfers PoE. C2 is at a remote location and the only connection is a COAX wire. 
I am trying to figure out what causes this connection problems. The questions I have at this point are:
Since C2 is ARPing for C1 (which is presumably answering the ARP request) the probable cause is a communication problem from C1 back to C2 - the ARP response doesn't make it back and transmissions stall. Apparently, C2 hasn't received anything from C1 for a while and the ARP cache entry has timed out.
I have a setup where I have two computers connected to each other (C1 and C2). Both have a static IP and they know each others IP. C2 sends UDP packets to C1 and C1 receives and logs them. 
Your first question, "When does an device emit the 'Who has IP' message?" is the only on-topic question. What you are seeing is an ARP (Address Resolution Protocol) request. ARP is used to resolve a layer-3, e.g. IPv4, address to a layer-2 ,e.g. MAC, address.