It's a bad idea to use Strings to represent the colors or numbers to repesent to card functions. This can go wrong if you happen to mistype a color name. Use Enums instead.
What I mean is that breaking up things into smaller chunks that all do one thing and do it well helps in so many ways. Now granted it can be taken too far, but for the most part if you break things down into something sort of vague and build from there. For instance if you think of uno as a few things such as "Game Rules", "Cards", "Players", "Deck" then you would at a bare minimum start with 4 classes. Those 4 things would do one thing and do it well. Like lets take Game Rules. You could have started with it calling each player in order and asking them to take their turn. It could have kept track of the deck and gave a player a card when it was requested. It could have also shuffled the deck of predefined cards (like it sorta would have been if you buy the game). After each player it could have checked if said player won or not. This would have made the class kind of big, but now maybe you could have seen that the user input is what is bloating the class. So you could have pulled it out in a user input class of sorts.. so on and so forth. The point is that if you think of the individual moving parts of a system and start there and work your way down while keeping in the back of your mind that you want things to stay small, and they should be responsible for one thing and one thing only then your code would look very different than it does now and potentially easier to understand at first glance
You shouldn't have rand and face as class fields. You only use face inside the getFace() method to build the string so it should be a local variable in that method instead. It's the same with rand and the constructor. Additionally you shouldn't create a new Random object every time you need a random number. Instead you should have one single instance of Random for the whole application.
Generating a random card in the card object doesn't seem to be a good idea anyway. This way you'll have duplicate cards and not a regular deck. It would be better to create a complete deck of all 108 cards, shuffle it and draw cards from it.
Magic numbers are numbers or string literals (for example: "none") make a person wonder. "What does 12 mean?" or "What does 13/14 do?". You asked that question to your self at one time because you put a comment in to tell yourself that 12 means that the card is a Draw 2. So instead of putting 12 why not make a class (abstract class if you want, or maybe an enum) that contains some these magic numbers it takes the guess work and the comments out of your code. I imagine it looking somethign like this in one case