This question was asked a very long ago and the OP may have been inactive since then. So, I guess nobody is here to mark the answer as accepted. Still this is a common problem and many users may find this answer helpful.
Simply, click on Enable Editing and you are done. Without doing so, you won't be able to edit the Page Setup.
In Office 2013, many previous file formats mostly templates, ActiveX files & some files of other formats are blocked by default for security purpose as malicious code can be run through those files. As your mentioned word document template was created many years ago, it was also in the block list. That's why you were unable to edit the Page Setup. Now we will simply remove the block from those file category. But remember as I have told earlier those were blocked for security purpose, it is better to rollover the steps I will mention below after your work is over.
No, obviously it is not related to your printer, the issue was completely related to Word configuration for that particular document. When you convert it to pdf, the file is actually saved in the actual size that is set in the page layout for the document. But you were able to print in your required size because the pdf reader could manage it to fit the document to the page. 
In the same window, in the section which says Open behavior for selected file types: select the third radio button stating Open selected file types in Protected View and allow editing.
Now you should be able to change the Page Setup as you desire. Still you may face another silly problem after opening the document. You may see something like this in the top of the document after opening:
You have already mentioned, you found online that going to Page Layout and setting the desired size from there is the workaround for your problem. Yes, this is the exact solution for your problem. But you are unable to do so because there is a second problem which should be fixed before doing so. And this problem has a workaround, too. 
Now again select File Block Settings from Left Pane and Check open for your documents file type. Additionally you can also select save for that file type, too if the option is available.