You can also look at the built in Disk Utility. That gave me conflicting reports each restart but did inform me on one restart that ~100 GB of data was purgeable.
I had the same problem. My System folder was 50 GB, my Applications folder was 20 GB, and my Downloads, Music, etc accounted for about 20 GB. And my "About this Mac" was showing "System" space used as 160 GB, thus showing that there was no disk space any more on my 256 GB mac. 
Disk Inventory X gave me different sizes than the System Information window and it didn't find any problematically large files. Daisy Disk, however, did find a glob of ~75 GB that it couldn't scan because of permissions, even when scanning as admin. The com.apple.coresymbolicationd directory has restrictive permissions, so I assume that was the culprit.
Once I found the files under logs (go to ~/Library/Containers/com.apple.mail/Data/Library/Logs/Mail) and deleted them I opened up 100gb of space on my drive.  also turn off the logging under connection doctor in Mail. My system went from 130 to 43gb
One night the size of the 'System' section of my storage increased 40 GB in an hour (though, I am running the High Sierra Beta). I restarted a few times and nothing seemed to happen. I read an answer somewhere to an issue related to this that I could delete the com.apple.coresymbolicationd folder in /System/Library/Caches/. The system couldn't read the size of the directory so I figured it was a problem folder, so I deleted it, emptied the garbage, and restarted. Now my System section is 50 GB (used to be 120 GB).
So I spent some time found where this "160 GB" was being used. In the Users/<user>/Library folder, one of my application had created a directory and was storing some files over there which accounted for majority of the 160 GB. I removed that application and deleted this folder which resolved my problem.
Deleting that directory isn't harmful to the system as far as I know, and it regenerates when the OS needs it again.
the problem I found was that for years I had connection doctor in Mac Mail logging zillions of connection histories creating a giant txt files (more than one in fact). 