I'm running a Java data import process on a 32-bit Ubuntu 10 PAE kernel machine. After running the process for a while, the oom-killer zaps my Java process. After some Googling and digging through docs, it looks like the system is running out of LowMem. I started the process for the third time and am watching free -lm show me Low:   464  386  77 with the free value (77MB) slowly decreasing.
You can try to boot with less memory (mem= command line parameter to the kernel). But the real solution is to switch to a 64-bit kernel.
On 64bit on the other hand addressing has changed considerably, so you won't find this issue, there.
Well, I'm not sure if I'm correct, size of low memory is one of kernel's parameter. I think than one process can not grow over size of low memory because of PAE, but check this http://www.makelinux.net/ldd3/chp-15-sect-1.shtml 
The problem is that a lot of the kernel data structures such as the page descriptors (one struct for every 4KB page in the system) need to be in low memory. So as the total memory in the machine goes up, more and more low memory is also needed, and eventually low memory becomes a very scarce resource. 
The Management of Memory in this regard is rather bad on Linux. It will take the first 4G of memory and split them 3/1. 1GB being LowMem. With 32GB of memory on the system it will already need a substantial part of this 1GB for addressing purposes.
So on 32bit there is probably no way around this issue, as the memory system is simply not meant to scale to such amounts of memory.
During the 2.4 days there was a discussion about putting some effort into this to make this limit configurable, or to integrate the 4G/4G patch, none of which has happened though, as Linus didn't see any need for this, and things were already ugly as they were, not to mention, that 4G/4G is not pretty either.
There still is a 4g patch around for 2.6, but it got written for 2.6.6 originally, which is very much outdated today. By 2.6.7 it was pretty clear that it would never be merged, its performance overhead was gigantic anyway, so the decision was made, that the VM System was good enough as it is.
IIRC the usual rule of thumb is that 16 GB total is about the upper sane limit for a 32-bit kernel. There's not very much you can do about it.