With students, when I am in class and they are working on coding assignments, the same thing can happen: they will ask any old question that pops in to their head because I am sitting 5 feet away (usually trying to grade assignments or prepare to lecture). Sometimes the questions are quite elementary. Other times, it amounts to structuring a complex If-Else or something that they could do, but they have difficulty with. The only 'help' I can give is to explain how it should function. They learn that way, but then I become the Oracle.
I do often deflect questions or look at the problem they are having to know that it is something I have taught and then say I need them to work at it a bit more, but this seems to happen a lot. If I was not there, they would be forced to work it through themselves. Is there a way to encourage the students to be more independent, because I have not found it yet.
If you try hard enough, in many situations you will be able to give them other help. Ask them to explain their thinking, what the code so far does, what happens with a sample input, etc.
Think through how you debug, and try to make it as explicit as possible. Make up a check-list. When students ask you for help, quiz them about what they did regarding the items on the check-list. "Did you look up the documentation?" "Did you write up your best guess and run it, even if you thought it would fail?" "Did you look for an example of code that does something similar?" "Did you check what the shape and contents of your variables are?" etc. Have them work through their problems with each other.
When I did customer service for an application I was developing, I found that most of the time, if I did NOT answer the phone, the user would figure out their problem and learn more than if I did answer. Some people would just call up any time the slightest thing happened, if I kept answering.
I tell my students if they want to ask me more than one question a day, I am going to start asking them two questions before I answer them. 1) What have you tried. 2) Who else have you asked. If they cannot answer those two questions, then they are not ready to have their own question answered. It makes it harder for them to get away with using you as a crutch, and 90% of the time they try something and figure it out on their own.