In my case, there was not gateway configured.thats why I could access it on the same network but not any other network (vpn, for example).  
We've got a VSphere ESXi 5 box running on a 9.x subnet, our office runs from the 1.x subnet. We can access the VM's running on the box without issue (which also have 9.x IP's) however we can ping the management network interface for the VM box but can't either browse to the box http/https nor use VSphere client to connect to it. The connection just times out. We have a VPN connection between the two subnets and have checked both firewalls and nothing is being blocked (which is also supported by the fact that all traffic can pass to/from the VM's).
Is there a setting within VMWare that restricts management traffic by default, to its local subnet? It would make sense for that to be the case...but I can't find any options within VSphere client. The default gateway is definitely correct for the management network, again supported by the fact that we can ping and get a response from its IP from our 1.x network.
I know this is an old thread, but I've seen this problem before and wanted to help any other vsphere admins who run into the same issue. When you can manage the esxi environment from the local subnet but not from a remote, the trouble is going to be a layer 3 or higher issue. Since other traffic can traverse from one subnet to another you know the problem isn't in the router or firewalls in between. So the problem must be on the esxi device. The situation you have described can easily occur if a VKERNAL adapter is set up to belong do a different IP range than is correct. You can verify this easily by navigating to Host -> Manage -> Networking -> TCP/IP configuration _> IPv4 routing table. If you see that the host is trying to locally route (gateway 0.0.0.0) to a subnet that it is not a part of then you have found your culprit. Track down the vkernal adapter that is misconfigured and get it configured correctly!
This isn't anything whatsoever to do with vSphere, it's a simple Layer 3 routing issue, get some working routing in place, that's it.
Right Click on the Host>Configuration>Networking>Properties>Management Network (you may have renamed your mgmt network something else)>Edit>Check the default gateway and subnet mask.