As I understand the process, the actual "does this update apply to me" check is handled on the client side. It downloads a list of available updates for its products and does the check. Obviously, if there are updates available for its products the check will take longer. 
One of the other guys here has the opinion that having updates that are relevant to only a small selection of hosts would effect the performance of WSUS as a whole,  claiming that each update does a 'check' against all the hosts or something similar.  My argument is that manually updating these servers is obviously not working as the admins are not paying attention to what is needed.
2) Yes of course, but not every client machine is going to be in the same state, there are already built-in mechanisms I mentioned above that reduce the number of packages to install, but you're at Microsoft's mercy here.
1) WSUS can download rollup packages to reduce the need for lots of small packages and from a distribution and client installation perspective this is ideal and takes less time to install then the individual updates.
The updates once approved are static content, unless the disk was highly fragmented at the time they were downloaded they are going to sit on the disk fairly sequentially. 
I do recommend that you at least point your servers to WSUS for reporting purposes, even if the process to patch them is manual.
We have a WSUS server serving around 300 PC's and a couple of dozen servers and a discussion came up at work as to what products to include.
We have a single SQL 2005 instance on one of the servers and it has NEVER been updated. My first thought was to just tick the box for SQL 2005 and let WSUS do it's thing to upgrade to the latest service pack at least.
However, the time to perform the updates is significantly longer than the time to check for updates. Secondly, the check for updates is done as a background task so performance shouldn't really matter. The check-for-updates is designed from the bolts out to be performed randomly during a week so it taking 30 seconds instead of 12 really should only matter if your update-application method is "manually update everything from console, with all auto-updates, even check-for-update turned off", which is an anti-pattern (don't do that).
Basically I'm needing a rebuttal against his argument and I'm unable to find any concrete documentation to prove him wrong. 