I doubt it's the cause in this case, as throughput would probably be lower, but after banging my head against the wall for a long time with my own throughput problems on Vista, I discovered this was the cause.  I set NetworkThrottlingIndex to 70 and I finally got the throughput I expected.
I think u need to read a little bit more about how iperf works. If you don't set the correct tcp window size your results will vary a lot. I believe its the -w switch. This website will assist with calculating the optimal TCP window size. You need to know the RTT and bandwith to calculate it. http://www.kehlet.cx/docs/tcpwin.php
See here for some info about MMCSS and network throttling: http://blogs.technet.com/b/markrussinovich/archive/2007/08/27/1833290.aspx
Something to try is to stop the MMCSS service.  Yes, you will lose your audio temporarily, but it could be that something is activating it, causing the network activity to be throttled so that the network activity doesn't drown out other activity.
Therefore, the first thing I would try is increasing the TCP window size on the Vista machine using the -w argument.  0.01MB is a somewhat unhelpful unit; I'm guessing it's 16KiB.  So start with 16KiB and run a test:
Also try other tools like "LAN Speed test" lite which will just do up and down transfers between shares at either end. Its results are quite close in the testing ive done with it. Also make sure u check what your hard drives max r/w speeds are.
Hopefully you should observe a speed increase.  Continue doubling the window size until you no longer see significant speed increases.
Linus from Linus Tech Tips on Youtube had the same problem, and I apologize but I have forgotten what the solution was. It is a recent (as of 4/20/2016) video,  and I may be wrong but I think it ended up being a case where a single thread on a processor is the limiting factor, so if you have older hardware and you are trying to hit 1 Gbps, it is actually the CPU that is the problem, if it offloads the bulk of the work to the CPU, which most on-board NICs do these days. I could be mistaken, it is a recent video of his, I highly encourage you to check his stream. For what it is worth I am running into the same problem on my gigabit internet connection.
The TCP window size represents the maximum amount of data the TCP stack will squirt down the wire blind before stopping and waiting to receive acknowledgements from the remote machine -- in other words, the maximum amount of unacknowledged traffic on the wire.  The fact that the TCP window on the Vista machine is much smaller than on the Windows Se7en machine supports the theory that you're not filling the pipe enough before stalling and waiting for ACKs.