I already know .NET well, and the C# language just fits my style very well and I feel secure with it.
I want to learn to develop 3D and 2D graphics with either OpenGL or DirectX. I chose OpenGL as it's being used in webGL and works cross-platform.
You will need to take a very rigorous approach of converting your project files from one environment to the other, testing early and often so as to catch problems quickly, and rewriting immediately anything that proves not to be portable. This can be very frustrating at times.
However, I want to develop a game that works on Windows and Linux. Is this possible to do with the combination of C#, .NET and OpenGL. I know that OpenGL will not be a problem.
In the end, ask yourself why you would want to target Linux. If learning C# and 3D development is your main goal, maybe you should concentrate on Windows instead of getting lost in the intricate details of different platforms. If your goal is to write a platform independent 3D application, many other interesting languages, such as Java or Python, might be better options in term of portability, and they are close enough to C# that you can leverage most of your experience in that domain.
Like the others said: test your code as often as possible on 'the other OS' - and by that I mean daily.
Unity is available for Windows and the Mac, but since Mac essentially is unix, I guess it's only a matter of time/effort before Unity can target Linux..
In practice, this is likely to be somewhat painful: you will need to restrict yourself to the subset of functionality that works for both Visual Studio and Mono, and it is likely that you won't be able to use many tools and libraries which have been targeted at only one environment.
I highly suggest you take a look at OpenTK. Using it with MonoDevelop has worked out great for me in the past (Though I never wrote a full on game with it). If you stick the the C# 2.0 standard, you'll have little to no problems.
In theory, yes, you should be able to develop a 3D application using C# and OpenGL on both Windows and Linux. 