You seem to want split brain DNS without actually hosting the zone internally. You suggest that hosting the zone internally is problematic because you don't want users to get the internal IP when they are working from home but that doesn't make sense because when they are at home they are getting their IP from a different DHCP server that isn't going to advertise your internal DNS server. It is going to advertise their ISP's DNS server which will only know about your external zone and will thus only provide them with external IP addresses.
What you should be careful about is, you should populate this internal zone with all the names you will need, even using public IP addresses where needed; otherwise, internal clients wil be unable to resolve those names.
This setup will not have any impact on external clients, or on any of your users which is temporarily outside your network, because that internal "shadow" zone will never be visible from the Internet.
You can safely create a zone on your internal DNS server with the same name as a public Internet zone; what will happen is, your server will handle requests for names in that zone using its own data, instead of forwarding those requests to the authoritative name servers for that zone; this is sometimes called "shadowing", because it makes the "real" public zone unavailable to internal client, answering instead with "fake" data.
Wes: I'm not sure who dinged you but I'd like to clarify the use of the hosts file: The hosts file is used by the DNS client resolver component, not the DNS server component. An entry in the hosts file on a DNS server will be used by the DNS server when it's acting as a DNS client. For instance, an entry in my W2K8 DNS server's hosts file like this:
Any DNS client querying the DNS server will always get the "real" answer and not the hosts entry because the DNS server's DNS client cache is used by the server itself (as a DNS client) and not by the DNS server component.
is loaded into the DNS server's DNS client cache (not it's server cache). If I ping test.test.com from my DNS server it returns 1.1.1.1 as expected. If I then run nslookup on the DNS server and ask it for test.test.com it returns the correct public ip address registered for test.test.com as the DNS client component on the DNS server is now asking the DNS server component for resolution (just the way any other DNS client would). It's a confusing idea to wrap your head around, but the DNS server is also a DNS client and when the DNS client component is called into action it acts as any other DNS client does by looking at it's own DNS client cache, including any entries pre-loaded from the hosts file. Only when the DNS client component uses the DNS server component (by querying the DNS server(s) configured in it's TCP\IP properties, which should be pointed to itself) will the DNS server's cache get populated with the correct information.
As far as I know, there is no way to make Windows DNS use the hosts file to handle name resolution; but this is not needed.
To solve this, you need to put "www.nlscan.com" too inside your internal zone; it can point to its real public IP address if you want your clients to access it that way, or you could use the same redirecting you're using for "mail.nlscan.com", if "www" is also being forwarded by your firewall to some internal server.
Finally, I don't think you'll have success with asking a DNS server to serve records from the hosts file on the DNS server. A DNS server serves records from its zone files. The local hosts file on that DNS server propagates entries into the local client resolve cache which is applicable only to lookups on that machine. Those entries aren't served by the DNS server which is a different mechanism.
The desire to have internal users get internal IPs for resources while external users get external IPs for those same resources is common. It is referred to as split brain DNS. You have one DNS server that faces the internet and another internal DNS server for local users. Internal users use DHCP on your network and an your DHCP server you advertise the internal DNS server. When your users are away from the office, their DHCP server will assign them to a DNS server that will only know about the external zone.
You want internal clients to resolve mail.nlscan.com as 172.16.0.10; that's ok, so you create a "nlscan.com" zone on your internal DNS server and put "mail.nlscan.com -> 172.16.0.10" in it.
Nevermind the hostfile, just add a new zone in the DNS mail.domain.com and add a a host in the zone. leave the name blank (it will automatically use the name of the zone) and enter the IP address of the local mail server ;-)
But now your internal clients can't resolve "www.nlscan.com", because the server thinks it's authoritative for that zone, so it won't answer the query (because it doesn't know about that host), but it also won't forward it to anyone.