I found this by restoring the image of my boot drive on an old 40 GB PATA drive I had laying around.  I booted it up on the new hardware and installed all the drivers for that mainboard.  Then I shut it down and connected up the SATA drive.  When I rebooted the 750 GB SATA drive with multiple partitions appeared as though it had a single unformatted 128 GB partition.  With some research I found out about the EnableBigLba registry key.  I set up that key and rebooted and the SATA drive showed up with all it's partitions.  I imaged the updated version of system drive and applied the image over the primary partition on the SATA drive.  Then I removed the PATA drive and the system boots up now using just the SATA drive.
There is the chance that if you enter BIOS and move AHCI to ATA (I usually poke around until i find it, as all BIOS are different) that it will allow you to install the OS.  After this, you can look for drivers from your motherboard's chipset manufacturer that will allow you to change it back after you have loaded your OS.  Hope this helps, Good Luck.
Disk imaging the machine and moving it to another box is seductive but you're not doing anything to help the resulting machine's stability. 
I'm thinking now that I have a working image of the drive I'm going to try an in-place upgrade to SBS 2003.  It will only take 30 minutes to roll back to where I am now if things go haywire.
I made sure I can always go back to the old hardware but I'd really like to get this running on the newer hardware.  The hardware is pretty similar - it's not like I'm doing a major hardware upgrade, it's even the same processor and this mainboard is really similar to one this install used to run on.  (The old hardware failed so I had to quickly move to new hardware, now I'm trying to move it back to the replacement hardware Intel sent as a warranty replacement.)
I'm currently operating under the theory that this is caused by the fact that my original Server 2000 doesn't have drivers for the SATA controller on the new motherboard.  The early part of the boot process must be handled by the BIOS and it only fails when Windows tries to take over the file access.
What you're doing may seem trivial, but it's not. Disk imaging software makes it easy to do things that the operating system can't cope with easily. Micorsoft doesn't officially "support" moving installs of Windows between different makes or models of computers or motherboards (see http://support.microsoft.com/kb/249694). You're not going to have an easy road of this if you try and do this in this fashion.
If what you're doing is a permanent move I'd really recommend a clean installation as a secondary domain controller and a migration of SBS from one machine to the other (here's the procedure for Windows Server 2003, but it doesn't go thru doing a "swing" migration through a temporary computer to preserve the original server computer's name: http://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/cc747454(WS.10).aspx).
I know you can use F6 during a fresh install to add drivers but that doesn't seem to help me since I'm not installing fresh.  Even so, I have not been able to track down SATA drivers for this board even though I have found all the other drivers on Intel's site.  It appears that there aren't specific drivers for the SATA controller.
I'm moving my Small Business Server 2000 to newer hardware.  I used Acronis TrueImage to create an image of the partitions on the current 250GB IDE drive and restored the images to partitions on a 750GB SATA drive.  The new mainboard is an Intel D915GEV.
Windows 2000 Server was made before drives got bigger than 128 GB.  Therefore, it can, by default, only use 128 GB of the drive.  If the drive is bigger than that, even if the boot partition is smaller it appears that it can't read the partition table correctly.  The solution is to add that registry key before putting it on the new drive.  There's an MSKB article about it here.
I'm missing a lot of tiny little steps in there and, to be honest, I can't remember if that whole procedure works on SBS 2000 or not. If I were doing this I'd bring up SBS 2000 in a lab on a VM, populate it with some bogus users, mailboxes, public folders, and data, and then do the entire migration scenario from top to bottom twice (once making notes and gathering data, and the second time as a "dry run".)
How about using the free Hyper-V Server on the new hardware and converting your SBS server to a VM? You'll need a PC with Vista and the Hyper-V management tools to manage the Hyper-V Server.
If I boot in safe mode I can see that it's loading lots of drivers and the BSOD happens when it tries to switch into the graphical boot.  That means the drive isn't totally inaccessible.
Now, I'm not saying this is the best way to upgrade a Small Business Server.  I'm sure Evan is right about a server migration being the "best" way to do it but I've already invested enough time in this and my window of opportunity for the server changes is about to close.