To get from that computer to yours, the information has to travel through several routers along the way.  Each router has the opportunity to modify the data passing through it and you don't know who owns or operates the routers.
With an un-firewalled computer connected to an untrusted network, you're exposed on all three counts.  The guy at the other end could use the data you send him inappropriately, or he could send malicious data to your system.  Even if the guy at the other end is trustworthy, someone with access to the "pipe" could read/manipulate the bits and bytes to extract your private data or send malicious content to either you or the other end.  And if someone can connect to your computer without your consent and manipulate it's innards, everything is exposed.
In a fully-trusted network (eg, a network consisting of only the computers in your own household) you have none of these concerns.  But get outside of such a limited environment and you need to be concerned.
This is why you can't trust the internet, at least not in the sense of "trust" as used in discussions of security:  You could be getting data from a malicious creator, or the data could be getting sent by a malicious server, or the data could have been modified in transit by a malicious router.
Unless you have taken some measures to verify both the identity of the originator (e.g., having the source provide a signed digital certificate) and the integrity of the communication channel (e.g., using an encrypted protocol), you can't really do much more than cross your fingers and hope that what you get will be the same as what you requested.
Information that you get from the internet is coming from a specific computer that's... well... it's out there somewhere.  You don't know who owns or operates that computer.  You don't know who put the information on it, either.
In terms of keeping the bad guys from connecting directly your box, this comes down to having a good firewall.  This can either be firewall software in your computer (as a part of the antivirus package, generally) or as a separate hardware box.  (This function is often included in wireless routers, for instance.)
Trusting the other end is of course a matter of judgment on your part.  You (hopefully) use some care and don't transact business on sites which you do not have good reason to trust (and never use a debit card to make internet purchases).  And you use an anti-virus/firewall setup that will prevent a malicious (or simply hacked) site from installing nasties on your box.
Do you trust everyone in the world with a network connection? Do you want all of them to be able to connect to your company's payroll database?
Why trust any network, large or small? Trust is elusive, and perhaps it's the worst word to use in this context. When you traverse any network boundary, you need to consider the risk and invoke the necessary mitigation. 
Assuring a good, uncompromised connection to the other end is mainly a matter of using an encrypted protocol.  For HTTP, this is generally HTTPS -- a version of the HTTP protocol that adds the SSL "Secure Socket Layer" encryption layer.  All reputable sites that deal in private/financial matters should be using the HTTPS protocol (which you will know because the URL prefix is "https:" and because your browser displays a "padlock" icon or wording like "Verified by: VeriSign, Inc." if you hover the mouse cursor over the icon ahead of the URL in the address line).  There are other approaches, such as using a VPN (Virtual Private Network), but they're more for business/commercial stuff.