I'm rebuilding a three-year-old AMD Athlon 5000 system which has an "ASRock NF7G-FullHD" motherboard with 4 memory slots, labeled "DDR2 800", said to have RAM capacity 8GB total.  Besides 550W PS and 500GB disk I bought a "matched pair" of 2 ea. 2GB DIMMs that, unfortunately, have persistent single-bit errors at several locations (see picture).
As stated a single bit memory error can cause almost anything to go wrong, or you may never notice it at all. 
Question summary:  What would be the effect of running Linux on this system with memory subject to some single-bit errors?  Is there a fix other than replacing RAM?
I had a bad memory stick before and the bad point in RAM effectively meant that Windows would sometimes work, but it would corrupt itself pretty regularly.  You can never predict what will be allocated into any given spot of RAM in a system (due to the way OS'es allocate memory) and while you may get lucky and only have it break some unimportant program or corrupt one graphic there is a good chance that it will do a lot worse and you are risking your data by using a bad stick of RAM.
My advice is as follows: in the short term be prepared for data loss and general system instability, in the long term you should figure out which stick is faulty and replace it.
one error occurred (located in first GB of RAM) in 1.5 hours of testing; with (old, old, new0, -), no errors in 2 hours of testing.  A performance problem with 6GB configurations is memory access rate of only 1.7GB/sec. 
Note, the 4 memory slots are labeled DDRII_1,2,3,4; 1&2 are yellow, 3&4 are orange.  The Memtest86 picture above was taken when slots were filled in (new,old,new,old) order.  Errors also occur at similar addresses with fill order (old,old,new,new), with same memory access rate (about 2.9GB/s) as in picture.  Filled (old, old, -, -) or (old, -, old, -) or (new, -, new, -) no errors occurred in a few hours of testing, but (new, new, -, -) for some reason didn't get into or through BIOS and reset button appeared to have no effect and there was no video signal.  With 3 slots filled, e.g. (new1, old, new0, -)
What would be the effect of running Linux on this system with such memory?  I.e., how likely is instability, undetected error, or low performance?  Will there be OS crashes, segfaults, miscellaneous application failures, or what?  Is there a way to map out or disable bad chunks of RAM?
Today's memories (say from at least 10 years to date) should all have error correcting built in. If that is regularly failing something is very wrong and could fail catastrophically at any moment.
Linux has support for BadMem which, if I remember correctly, can mean that you can "map out" the bad block of memory.  I couldn't work out if it supports the latest kernel to see if it is of any use to you though.