I'm a sole proprietor in Canada and work under the legal name "John McDonald Consulting". Since I charge my customers GST, I have to have a GST number registered with the government where I pay them the GST that I collect each quarter. Your country of residence may be different, check their website.
TBH, it really depends on what the laws are.  I know here in United States, the city has its own laws, the state has its own laws, and the country has its own laws for doing business. You have to abide by them all.  Certain permits you need from state, certain permits from city, and certain permits from country.
I'd think that using the name of a company that doesn't exist could be considered fraud. The copyright holder should be you for now. This covers the contingency where you don't form that company, or you don't form it soon. A copyright is property that you can transfer to your company later if you wish.
My recommendation would be to do a Sole Proprietorship.  It is fairly inexpensive, easy to setup, and will have you covered from the legal perspective.  There are some permits you'll also have to get.
Good news is: You probably won't have to worry about many permits/other paperwork.  Unless you get an office or start hiring people.
There's a reason why United States isn't so small-business friendly.  The laws make is quite hard for someone to setup a business.
P.S: Don't get discouraged from this whole legal thing! Trust me, it'll be all worth it once you start getting good reviews, and when the $ starts coming in.  This legal stuff is just so you can be covered.
In some/most countries, you can use a pseudonym of your choosing called a Trade Name. You just can't use "Incorporated", "Limited" or any other legal label in the name though. This type of business is called a Sole Proprietorship, and I would highly recommend it because it's easy to create (you already have), dissolve (any time), and do any taxes for (It's just personal taxes, nothing special). At any time, you can Incorporate a business by paying a bunch of money to the government and paying someone to handle the complicated taxes, but unless you're making a lot of money or have multiple employees, I'd stick with the Sole Proprietorship.