You would want this, for example, if you were rendering a GUI box that had smoothly scrolling text inside it. You want to clip all geometry outside the portion of the screen covered the by the GUI, but keep partial text or polygons which are still inside.
glScissor test specifies what pixels to be changed when rendering, while glViewport changes how gl should map from device coordinates to window coordinates.
Scissor test happens after the fragment shader, together with all of the other per-fragment operations that happen at that time, such as blending, depth/stencil, etc.  When a fragment is tested by the scissor test, it has therefore already been through the viewport transformation.
Then what's the difference with setting the viewport to the rectangle you want to render to and adjusting the projection matrix to undo the scaling done by the viewport.
So putting all of that together you can see why scissor test exists.  It gives you the ability to constrain per-fragment ops to a rectangular portion of the screen, but without actually modifying the current viewport transform.
glStencil is used to mask individual pixels in more complex patterns, such as irregular shapes. Thus, glScissors is faster.
I know that it is more efficient than stencil test, but am I right assuming that the same functionality could be achieved using projection transformations with viewport?
glViewport actually specifies a transformation, and it's a transformation that happens after the vertex shader but before the fragment shader.  If it helps to see where it conceptually fits in, think in terms of it being part of the transforms that are used to get your vertex data from world space to screen space (i.e. it's relatively closely related to modelview and projection).
Yes, scissor test can be faster can stencil because it's a simple accept/reject based on a fragment's screen space coords, whereas stencil needs to compare with the current value in the stencil buffer, possibly increment or decrement that current value, also take into account the results of the depth test, and so on.