I'm working on a dataset where I've user's Twitter followers gain per day. I want to measure the average growth he had over a period of time, which I did by finding the mean of growth. But someone is suggesting me to use median for this. 
Now say buddy Bill Gates is hiring a money manager. Based on the returns they produced so far. Should he look at their average returns over a 10 year period or their median return or a combination of the two? Did they outperform the market each year? Some years? How does portfolio size factor in? In the case of Twitter followers, Obama would have a different growth compared to someone with say 500K-1MM followers. As @l0b0 alludes to in his excellent answer - it all depends. Are you measuring follower growth or the rate of change of follower growth and what is the question you are trying to answer, strategy/product you are trying to develop - accordingly you pick mean or median. Getting the mean and median is always the easy part.  It's always better to never ever have the average of 2.1 kids. Have a whole number of kids. But what can you say about population growth rates if mean number of kids is 2.1 and median is 1 or 2? Or median is 3 or more? Is growth accelerating or decelerating? What is mode doing? Compute all the basics first - and then ask the reason why you are using mean versus median. 
So you line up all the people in your group in ascending or descending order - whatever the person in the middle is making - that is your median. In this example, everybody but Bill Gates is likely to be in spitting distance of that median, and Bill Gates will be the only one making anything close to the mean. 
Simply to say, If your data is corrupted with noise or say erroneous no.of twitter followers as in your case, Taking mean as a metric could be detrimental as the model will perform badly. In this case, If you take the median of the values, It will take care of outliers in the data. Hope it helps
I find myself explaining this a lot and the example I use is the famous Bill Gates version. Bill Gates is in your data science class. Your instructor asks you: what is the average income or net worth of this class? Bill Gates sheepishly obliges and tells you what his income is. Now when you say the average income of your group is a zillion dollars - technically correct but does not describe the reality - that Bill Gates is an outlier skewing everything. 
Often median is more robust to extreme value to mean. Try to think it as a minimization task. Median corresponds to absolute loss while mean corresponds to square loss.