Something tells me that I am taking the wrong approach. Should I be creating the database with a script instead of restoring from a .BAK? Can I use an account with less privileges than SA to execute all of these things, and if so what privileges would this account require? Should I remove these things from the installer package and have a separate script that can be run under the SA or another account that has the required privileges?
If the DBA doesn't want to grant sysadmin or securityadmin role memberships (needed to create logins), have the DBA create those logins prior to installation and add MyAdmin to the dbcreator fixed server role.  The dbcreator role membership will provide the permissions to create, alter, and drop any database. No server-level permissions need be granted to MyUser before installation since the login will have CONNECT by default.
If I do this I can still successfully create the database by restoring from .BAK as MyAdmin, but when I try to use the database (so I can create users in [New Database]) I get an error.
At the moment I do this within the installation package by asking for SA credentials. I am trying to reduce the privileges required to install the application, since I am (understandably) getting pushback from DBAs who don't want to provide SA credentials to my installation package.
You are responsible for Step 1 (creating the installation Stored Procedure), and the DBAs are responsible for the rest.
What I am looking for is a process that will create what I need with minimal privileges. If possible, I would like to minimise the changes required to the process I am currently using.
The MyAdmin account will own any databases created or restored under that security context. As the database owner, the account will be mapped to the dbo user and have full database permissions for administrative functions, including creating users and modifying schema. This account should be used only by the installer.  Routine database access should be done as MyUser with only the needed permissions granted.
You should be able to do this without having to give any special permissions to your installation Login. Try the following: