You will always pay for bandwidth one way or the other because - like pizza - it costs money to have it available. Even ISP's orffering hosting with "unlimited bandwidth" DO limit it - if anything else it is a mixed calculation AND you are limited to the speed of the port. Try asking them to upgrade you to 10 x 10gbit for free.
First, make sure all users are connected to you not using the internet. Second, make sure you run the server and your users are in a country where all content is legal or noone else than your agreed upon trustworthy users ever see the content.
The ISP provides connectivity for your systems.  By definition (Internet Service Provider), that's their job.  There are a countless variety of vendors that package connectivity with colocation (space, power, cooling) or some variation thereof.  It sounds to me like you just want to host your server out of your house without the headaches of a consumer ISP.  Unless you live in a very connected area, with incredibly flexible terms of service, I find it highly unlikely.
This quesiton is STUPID. Seriously. "no bandwidth limit" is like "I need unlimited telephon lines, free of charge, for using however i want". what about "unlimited pizza deliveries for a year for 9.99 USD Once"? No complaints - what you think ISP's complain about? Seriously. ILLEGAL CONTENT: It is not illegal because the ISP complains.
You will always need an ISP involved unless you plan on creating your own ISP with peering arrangements.  But as my momma always said, if you have to ask...  ;)
Get real. YOu ned an ISP, because even if you do not have one - how you think the internet works? WIthout ISP... users need to either have a leased line to your server, or dial in via modem.
And unless you and some others change the governments, you will get complaints for illegal content because it is illegal in the first place.
Your best bet is a colocation service (e.g. Server Central, SAVVIS, etc) that resells colocation space from the big boys (e.g. Equinix).
Rent a virtual private server.  If that's not enough for your needs, rent a managed host.  IF you want to run everything yourself, buy a 1U server, install what you want on it, and buy some colocation space for it.