Although this where decent backups would save the day - whether to consider consumer grade / MLC technology depends on how high the cost of downtime to you is, and whether it would be the end of the world to have to go back to the last backup in the event of a problem.
Say what? Sure, if you took a consumer-grade SSD and used it for log storage on a heavily loaded, highly transactional database server, sure, you're going to run out of write cycles very fast. That's the reason behind the huge cost difference between consumer drives and enterprise drives. With enterprise SSDs, you could pretty much keep them pegged at their IO limit constantly for years and not run out of write cycles.
There are 2 main types of SSD's in the market - MLC and SLC. MLC (Multi-Level-Cell) would be more of a 'consumer' version. It's less expensive than the SLC (Single-Level-Cell) version (considerably less expensive - by about an order of magnitude) but also has a significantly shorter lifespan.
This is a broad generalization, but enterprise SSDs will cost at least an order of magnitude more than their consumer-grade cousins.
If you were unlucky enough for multiple drives in a RAID to go in a short period the RAID and data would likely be toast. 
A final note: today, most RAID controllers max out at a throughput of about 150,000 IOPS. This equates to 4 SSD's, which is why you generally don't put more than 4 SSD's in a RAID group - after that, you're wasting performance - the controller can't move data any faster. However, I know that at least one major vendor will soon be offering controllers with better throughput - 300,000 and 600,000 IOPS - taking you to 8- and 16-disk SSD RAID groups for increased performance. I'd recommend you check with your vendor for this spec when you are configuring your server.
HOWEVER - having said all of that, the real question is: what are you planning on running on the SSD's? Even Enterprise solutions will use the MLC SSD's to save some money. By Microsoft's own calculation, in a heavy-hitting SQL environment (and we all know how disk-intensive a SQL Database can be), a 4-disk MLC SSD RAID would last 7-10 years before it became too degraded to use anymore. (Keep in mind, SSD's are designed with extra cells to replace the failed ones - this way you get maximum listed capacity until a critical threshold of cells fail, at which time you replace the SSD). An SLC SSD can last for decades before becoming unusable, and these are generally used in critical servers that are expected to be running for a very long time with very little maintenance.
As much as I pretty much agree spot on with WesleyDavid, one thing to be aware of - many mechanical drives often slowly die - they often slow down terribly due to retrying bad sectors or start making funny noises, etc. Often when SSD's go, it will be a sudden and total catastrophic failure leading to loss of all data on the drive. 
Are there any SSDs that are suited for an enterprise environment? What am I looking for in an SSD that signifies that "This one is better for a work-horse server"?
Additionally, you will likely be purchasing two of them, configured in a RAID 1 pair, so keep that in mind when budgeting.
Standard application servers rarely come close to the disk performance requirements of a DB server, so you'll need to clarify 'workhorse.' But generally speaking, if you build a server and use the branded SSD's offered (whether this is HP, Dell, IBM, etc...), the performance will be fantastic and the SSD's can be reasonably expected to last the lifetime of the server. Also, if they are in a RAID configuration, they can be replaced should one fail ahead of schedule. Intel, Crucial, and several other major vendors also offer solid SSD options. If you go that route though, be sure to check on the controller - some older/cheaper SSD's include older, poorer performing integrated controllers.
The SLC types are generally Enterprise oriented - they can handle 5-10 times as many read/write cycles as an MLC type SSD before a cell fails.
We all know SSDs are fast... but aren't all that great when it comes to any computer that writes to disk many times in any given minute. 