The teaching philosophy I came to as a young teacher (i.e. in my first year) was that I would ground myself in two qualities: passion and humility. (I've since added gratitude as an important third, but that's another topic.) Humility is essential regardless of the discipline.
Note: one caveat would be that some things just aren't okay to mistake. For example, a teacher of Java probably should know the difference between System.out.print() and System.out.println(). There's a level of basic competence that should be mistake-free, but when it comes to more complicated material or language nuances, then there's a little more freedom I think. Where that line is...there might be a bit of grey.
Also, one thing that can be meaningful in class is to show old code I have written. When I look back at some of the first CS50 solutions I wrote, I absolutely cringe. However, they can be effective teaching tools since students are beginners as well. Explicitly teaching prior "mistakes" emphasizes the benefit of reflecting on past work and the importance of having a "growth mindset."
If I make a mistake, I acknowledge it, but I do not stop there. If I err when it comes to, say, operator precedence (a recent topic here), I do all the research I can to crystallize that concept in mind and re-teach it so that it is just as clear for my students. I want my students to see that as their teacher, I too am always learning. The classroom should be a safe place to fail, to make mistakes, because of the role said failure can play in the learning process. It's fine to make a mistake; it's not fine to be okay with it.
Teachers are, after all, human. We make mistakes. We forget. We may occasionally forget whether a language uses else if or elsif or elif. The difference for us though is that we also model what it means to be a student. The phrase "life-long learner" is a bit cliche, but it does speak to an important truth: teachers should always model what it means learn. Part of that is showing an innate curiosity and interest with respect to the subject manner. Another aspect is never being okay with resigning oneself to just not knowing something.