Then going step by step building up the system with apt-get. You may put the apt-get commands into a file and use this file later to re-build the system, even to a certain point.
Do you have any kind of checklist, installation script, or any kind of that thing, when you are installing a new system? 
For something like OpenVZ/VServer, templates are used anyway - so just make a custom one. For something like KVM, just copy the harddisk image or you can even use a combination of read-only harddisk images with snapshots. Others have similar capabilities too.
Last options is install a whole system manualy, configure it, and then create a image of partition, and restore it eventualy instead of clean instalation. While this seems to me like good solution for installing on say 20 servers at once, it will also be outdated soon, so I'd have to create new, up to date, clean installation and create it's image again.
Another idea, which I'm trying now, is to write a checklist with things I need to do, and then manually install everything and check things on the paper. This has advantage of having more generic steps (like install MySQL), however I have to do everything manualy, which isn't very convenient.
Since we are talking about virtual machines, why not use images? For most VM systems, you can have some sort of template that the initial machine uses. So, you could always create a basic system, configure it to your liking as a generic base system, and then just create all your other derivative machines from this base template. How you would accomplish it would depend on the virtualisation technology that you used.
My first idea was to create simple bash script, that would install all necessary packages, compile sources, set up accounts etc. But my problem was, that it usualy got stuck in the middle somewhere, because of some change or problem, so I had to manualy hack it anyway. Also such a script will outdate very fast.
I know that different situation applies different measures, so there probably isn't one fit all solution.
In past few weeks I found out, that my Linux sysadmin skills are pretty low, so I bought bigger HDD (1.5TB) and started playing with virtual machines. I'm experimenting pretty hard way, so I end up reinstalling a lot. My problem is, I don't really know, what is the best way to do initial setup.