Sometimes it just happens. The manufacturing process is not perfect for any computer component, and sometimes, you just get bad drive, even right out of the box. Usually in a case like that, it is electronic in nature, but in your case, since you have had it for a while, it sounds physical. Electronic problems, especially as time goes by, are usually related to inconsistent power...spikes in power and brown outs, either of which is not particularly good for a drive.
On the other hand, if the drive had been mishandled, dropped or had something else nasty happen to it - power surges, or sudden shutdowns, there can be physical damage.
None of those things can harm a drive. On one hand, drives do die cause its their time - drive lifetimes usually follow a bell curve - it just happens no matter how carefully you coddle your drive.
If you plug in the power to the drive and put your ear to the drive, you should be able to hear it spin up. If you hear clicking noises (instead of a smooth spin up) then you know the drive is pretty much done for.
Generally a 'dead' drive won't show up in bios. A slightly dead drive might still have enough life in it to croak out why its dying - though SMART - you can use gsmartctl for a graphical interface to it. If its FS corruption 'only' it should show up in windows or linux - in windows under the disk management snap in, and in linux as a device. 
Typically, when a person has a physical problem, it is also due to power. This often leads to what was called a "head crash", which when the computer lost power, the heads often hit the platters causing physical damage. I actually thought that most modern drives had addressed this problem, but not according to the following article, although some have. Any Superuser users' comments regarding this would be welcome. Of course, sometimes people drop or bump drive, especially in laptops. This can also render a drive unusable.
With the first (dead) and second (slightly dead), there's not much you can do. viruses, and  software related issues,would, at most,cause the third.
The the best of my knowledge, a virus cannot physically harm a drive. I have had viruses that just could not be found, but I knew were hidden in the boot sector areas, and could only be removed by a low-level format (a utility that writes all zeros to the drive), and then doing a standard format, but no physical damage. For those who know more than me about disks, I realize that if I knew more about disk editing, I could have done that instead, but editing it directly was not an option for me. 