Logged back out and logged back in as the user in question.  Navigated her default browser (Google Chrome) to Java's website and checked the version #.  It verified that I had the latest version installed.  
I then tried to check to be sure that Windows was fully updated with all updates.  Attempts to update Windows 7 also failed.  Hmmm.  I checked the Antivirus, Symantec Endpoint 11.  Disabled it.  Still cannot install Java.  I also noticed the AV definitions were not current.  Attempt to update using their LiveUpdate utility also failed.  Now I suspect a MS user policy issue.  
I logged out of the PC and relogged in as ADMIN to the PC itself.  I launched the AV Liveupdate utility.  It would not update either but I found an option in the MS Properties to check compatibility.  I run the check and it suggested to run the application in Win XP SP2 mode.  I also selected to RUN AS ADMINISTRATOR.  The AV updated properly.
I had a user trying to install Java 7 update 21 with same error message: Wizard was interrupted....  Try Setup again later.
I then checked the Windows UPDATES.  I was also able to update Windows 7 with about 4 more patches.  One update failed (IE ver 10) but that I believe was insignificant.
PC was Windows 7 Pro, 64bit OS, User was set as an administrator to the PC when logged into the domain.  PC was a NEW Dell Optiplex.  Java had never been installed.  User was using Chrome as default browser but also has IE9 and Firefox.  Tried the automatic install and manual download.  Both failed with same message as above.  After reading several different scenarios of what people tried I began my attempt.
Logged in as Administrator to the domain on that PC with full admin rights.  Could not install Java 7u21.  Tried JavaRa and did not find any previous install or even any reminants of a previous install.  Then tried NiNite.com's installer app.  Again that failed to install.  But I as able to get an MSI error code of 1603, Fatal error on installation.
Then I looked at Java 7u21.  I had copied the full manual installer to the desktop of ADMIN (not that I felt I was required to)  I then checked the compatibility options and selected Win XP SP2 mode and also selected RUN AS ADMINISTRATOR.  This time the install completed.  At the end there was one error where it stated  BROWSERLAUNCHERROR.  Apparently it was trying to open the browser to do something.  I just clicked OK and moved on.
SUCCESS.   I believe that these install failures may have to do with some incompatibility of the installer to Windows 7 as well as some user policy issues, some items allowed by the original ADMIN but not available to other users with admin privileges.