Since you said you have things in non-standard locations, your choice may just be the source tarball. RPMs are prebuilt, and tend to have few options for configuration.
An RPM is an archive with a lot of special things in it. It's for installing already built software and sometimes source (usually marked as an SRPM, for source RPM). Besides the files itself, it may also have preinstall scripts, postinstall scripts, and also preremove and postremove scripts if you ever want to remove the software.  It keeps things tidy by keeping some install info in the RPM db. You need to be root to install, not only because the files (almost always) get installed in places that usually only root has access to, but you need to be root to change the RPM db.
A tarball in general is just an archive. A collection of files and directories. What you have is a source tarball, one that you need to configure and run for your specific install. Once you extract the tarball (tar -xzvf /path/to/something.tar.gz will extract it). Most software uses something called autoconf which generates a script called configure which can configure your source for building. It does some checks (do you have a compiler? are your libraries new enough?) and can take some command line flags. Use configure --help to see what these flags are. Usually the only flag you need is --prefix=/path/to/somewhere to say where you want to install.  Once you run configure you can run make && make install to install it. Or, sudo make install if  you are using root only locations.
Anything past the prefix=... flag is very dependent on your source, and what pre-exists on your computer. I don't know your package, nor do I know how php connects to it. Does configure --help list any flags for php path? Sometimes you just put the interpreter into your PATH e.g. PATH=/path/to/php/bin:$PATH. The configure script then (may) find php and query it (things that use perl work this way). You may need some post build configuration after. Be prepared to experiment.