Upgrade - If you have a system that already have a windows license an upgrade license will replace that license. So if you have a windows Vista computer, an upgrade license can turn that computer into a Windows 7 computer.
Important note: It doesn't matter what you "intend" to do with an invalid copy of windows. Simply booting up the OS is a violation of the license terms. Using an MSDN disk for any reason when you don't have an MSDN license is not allowed.
If you paid money for a MSDN disk, but did not get an MSDN license, then you have a problem. The only legal way to get MSDN disks is to purchase an MSDN license from Microsoft or an authorized reseller (If any exist). Because of the way MSDN works, people have been able to abuse the system to sell unauthorized (read: pirated) copies of Microsoft products. While you may be able to get a computer to work with this unauthorized OS, you can't escape the fact that you have an invalid license.
From what you say in your question, you might have an upgrade copy of win7. If you still have a valid vista disk and key. You should be able to install fresh from the upgrade CD and do a disk swap when prompted. It's been a while since I had to do an upgrade like this.
Retail - This version is for end users who are adding a new "seat" to their installation. If you had two computers and somehow added a third, you would need to purchase another seat.
I've seen too many people abuse the MSDN license and it can cause real headaches. Here are some extra reading if interested:
The MSDN license generally only covers software for testing purposes, so you can install the OS on a Virtual PC or on Hardware and use it to test your applications, but you are not allowed to use it for "production" purposes, which is what you want to do.
OEM - If you bought a system from a system builder (like Dell), you will receive an OEM copy. You cannot purchase OEM licenses for your own use. OEM licenses cannot be transferred but can be sold to other parties as part of the system as a whole.
If you're only using it for the purposes you state here, why bother with Ultimate?  Home Premium should be fine for you.