It should have a web interface that you can connect to for configuration which you can usually find in the manual. 
Some of the non-department folks wanted to use it as well, so we have our managers machine act as a print server, handling rights, time restrictions, etc. This limits access while keeping the machine active for everyone, and keeps the machine "off-IT", so we can get around the restrictions on which printers are allowed, and keep IT happy - they have no responsibility for the machine, so it doesn't have to follow the standard.
Just make sure that the network printer has the same network address scheme as the rest of the network and that the IP address given to it doesn't conflict with any other devices (i.e. 192.168.1.55).  
If two clients print at the same time (it'll never be precisely at the same time) the first to "control" the printer will be the one that gets the job printed first. Windows communicates with the printer at regular intervals to obtain status data. When the printer status is ready it can print the next job.
All of the engineering and maintenance have direct-connected to the printer for use in printing or scanning - they connect via our department wireless network which the printer is on, so as everyone has mentioned above, you can have multiple computers connected via direct connect. On the very rare occasions that multiple print jobs are started simultaneously, the printer queues the jobs nicely.
Just so long as your printer has its own address on your network and your client computers have the correct drivers and software installed then, yes, they each independently print directly to the device. Most of the time, when you install the printer software, the software will identify your printer automatically on your network so you can just keep clicking 'Next'!
Yes, all computers can connect to it via the network, as long as the network printer is plugged into a router, switch, hub, etc that the other computers are also connected to.  There is no need for a dedicated host computer.  
You don't need to worry about the queuing, it all takes care of itself. I've spent a number of years setting up small businesses with network printers and scanners.