There's nothing technically different between the TLDs; caching and zone transfers works the same way for them all. BTW, you seem to have some confusion between these two:
Geographical location is not an actual factor that matters. The recursive nameserver in use (typically provided by the ISP) and its connectivity is what matters in this regard.
The use of the term "propagation" in relation caching behavior and TTLs is misleading, it makes it sound like some data is being actively spread (possibly even in some kind of linear fashion, which would tie in with the idea that geography would matter) while in reality it's a matter of waiting for any already cached old data to expire (which happens independently on each caching server).
I suppose there might also be DNS servers and/or firewalls that limit the acceptable TLDs; that would be contrary to the specifications but it wouldn't surprise me.  
My suggestion would be to actually have a close look at both what the actual answers from recursive nameservers that do not answer as desired are as well as how all of the TLD nameservers respond as well as how all of the nameservers for your own zone respond.
That said, to me it doesn't appear particularly likely that caching is the issue if you have already waited four days. It seems more likely that there is some form of misconfiguration that causes the continued generation of new bad answers.
Do these recursive servers say that your domain does not exist, if so does the SOA at least match the actual TLD zone? If it doesn't match, that could be a sign that the recursive server may have some bad configuration that interferes.
As for the authoritative side, for this purpose dig +trace +add example.com NS and dig +nssearch example.com style commands may serve as a starting point and then work your way through from there. Services such as DNSViz may also be helpful to get a better overview.
As for the problem at hand, there's really not enough information in the question to say anything definite about what the problem is.
Contrary to @Esa Jokinen, I posit that there is a difference between TLDs: the nameservers for the TLD itself.  If the TLD itself is unresolvable because its nameservers are flakey, then your name will not be resolvable either.  
Just as an example where the choice of TLD would end up being a factor even though conceptually there is no difference, if one of the TLD zone's N nameservers for whatever reason does not get updated with the current version of their zone and still claims that your domain name does not exist (a valid response, does not trigger any retries) while their other nameservers correctly respond with a referral to your nameservers, there would be a 1/N chance that any given recursive nameserver will know for a fact, from a trusted source, that your domain name is non-existent and act as such.
It's really not the case that the TLDs you speak of are non-standard, rather they are just relatively newly established.