Not knowing the volume of your existing Exchange org, what the servers are capable of handling, size of the emails you are talking about sending, etc. it isn't easy to answer this.  You may not even notice anything, or it may bring everything to a crawl.
Personally though...I've yet to see a report that ALL employees care to see unless it included something about bonuses for everyone.  You might be better off hosting the report on something like Sharepoint, intranet, etc. and sending out instructions on how the employees can visit that report when they want, get alerts when it changes, etc.  Otherwise, you might end up finding out that the emails you are sending out are simply being deleted, wasting time and resources.
By default Exchange doesn't care about "priority" flags.  You can enable priority queuing though.  See here for a walkthrough for Exchange 2010: http://howexchangeworks.com/2011/05/enabling-priority-queuing-in-exchange.html
For instance, if all the users are local to the Exchange server, could be no big deal.  If you have 300 at a remote office over a T1, then you'll be saturating that link for a while if the emails are large (assuming no QoS).
The URL takes everyone to a page where they authenticate (if they aren't already) and then are taken to their individualized report based on their user ID.
If there is a problem, you'll notice it by monitoring the exchange server while generating the reports.  Are it's CPUs pegged?  Is it getting sluggish?  Is the disk queue skyrocketing?  If so, add a small delay between emails.
Assuming the program's loop generates report 1, then emails it to person1, then generates report 2, emails to person 2, etc...the report generating phase will probably be long enough that you don't cause too much load on the exchange server.  Even a small exchange server should have no problem handling a few emails per second.
I would send an identical e-mail, in a single operation, to a mailing alias that expands to all those employees for whom the report is generated.