If you will have many sites or many prefixes, this will start to tax your routing platforms, as they each need to process each. This is something that starts to take n2 time.
If you are going to have many sites, many stubby sites (one path "upstream", no other downstream routers), or lots of route churn, you're going to need to look into other protocols or topologies.
You could even re-use the same private AS numbers as those used with the MPLS provider to facilitate migration from a service to another.
Assuming that you place just one Ethernet MAC address on the CPE-side of each of your sites, it's much simpler for the provider's equipment to learn and forward 1 MAC addresses per site, than to learn and route potentially-many subnets per-site.
Whatever you do, ROUTE OVER IT DO NOT I REPEAT DO NOT JOIN AT LAYER 2, you're just asking for trouble later on, if you need layer 2 interconnectivity, use OTV or other layer 2 over layer 3 feature. 
Switching from a managed L3VPN (what I assume you meant by "MPLS VPN") to an L2VPN is a nice step up in that you can run non-IP protocols, and get total control of the routing protocols and routing platforms that define your routing topology.
Assuming it's all internal, then you'll just be deploying an IGP and maybe running some eBGP for announcing paths out.
You still get all the routing-policy benefits of running BGP if you do it this way...and it also, as another respondent mentioned, can use the same private AS number space and could even interconnect with the existing L3VPN so your model and support mechanisms don't need to change.
Even though the bgp peerings would be like a hub&spoke topology, all the spokes should be able to send traffic directly to all others. 
There could be reasons to continue to run BGP, however...though they would be much the same arguments of why you might want to run BGP within your own network as well.
Is this just one big customer that needs internal and internet connectivity, or does it sell connectivity as well?
I would highly recommend reading up on and making a decision regarding alternative OSPF topologies such as starting out as NBMA instead of standard. You will soon realise there is no way for OSPF to correctly select between two paths going to the same router/site within the same metro ethernet, due to the way cost is calculated via outbound interface, both the main and backup WAN links will appear same cost in standard OSPF. However if you choose to use NBMA for example then you can manually define neighbor costs - but now you have to manually define the mesh/adjacencies. 
You'll quickly find you'll learn a lot more about OSPF (and need to know a lot more) than compared to a simple provider MPLS-VPN where the WAN core is hidden from you. 
So, for example, if you have a layer 2 mesh with routers A, B, and C on it and you have BGP peers between A and B, and between B and C, when C gets updates for routes originated at A, it will have A as the next-hop, even though they were learned through the peering session with B.  Obviously you would want more route peering than just a single hub-and-spoke, so you're not dependent on the single hub, but you don't need a full mesh by any means.
In a case like that, I'd recommend using BGP with some route reflectors. This way, you can provision 2+ heavy-duty route-reflectors that spokes announce into, and for which the other spokes can grab a routing table from.
Protocol-wise, this is a bit of a tricky question to answer without a lot more information, as the best choice depends on your traffic and growth plans.
You could very well run OSPF (or other IGP) on a multi-point metro-Ethernet service, and it should work very nicely.
That being said, I have a couple of metro-E links (point-to-point in my case) that I run OSPF and iBGP across and it works just fine.
You don't necessarily have to put all of your BGP speakers in the same AS on a "broadcast" network like that.  Think of it as a sort of internal IXP run by the telecom where your private ASes can interconnect with each other via a layer 2 mesh.  You wouldn't even have to necessarily maintain a full mesh of BGP peerings as BGP updates can carry a next-hop in its update message that isn't the same as where the peer session is coming from.
If you have sites that are coming up and down often, this churn in link-state can also start to tax your router pool.
This way, you can deploy lightweight CPEs at your many spoke sites that just connect up, announce their space and get an internal table or default route to a router that does.
If you don't have very many sites or internal prefixes, a link-state protocol like OSPF or IS-IS makes the most sense, as it will converge quickly and can build the FIB from the RIB quickly if there are just a few prefixes.