Apparently it is not required to do so and you could initialize only the modules you are using and skip audio to avoid the problem.
Note I suggested putting both lines at the very top even prior to import pygame to be on the safe side. If desired to make the code prettier: I'm not sure if the os.environ statement can be moved down lower just prior to pygame.init(), but you can try and find out.
The SDL default sound driver is alsa but the Python program can select something else by starting with:
In the future if you wish to support sound in your Pygames via PulseAudio or one of the other drivers--and via the headphone jack or any other hardware--this understanding of SDL could come in handy.
dsp refers to the Linux Open Sound System (OSS) where sound is sent via I/O writes to /dev/dsp. As there's no immediate desire to play sound we could have tested any setting other than alsa. dsp was just the most vanilla one that came to mind.
I am running a pygame window on a raspberry pi. The raspberry pi is connected to an lcd through gpio (not hdmi). My pygame script does not contain any mention of audio, only some basic rectangle drawing and text drawing.
Well... even if your script has no mention of any sound stuff, pygame could very well include sound-related stuff inside and that's why you are seeing those messages. If you want to avoid those messages from showing up on the terminal, you can just redirect output so that you don't get it at all: python my-script.py &> /dev/null and voila! No output on the terminal. Could also try with 2> instead of &> if you want to only avoid error messages or even play a little bit with pipes if you want to avoid ALSA messages and see everything else ( blahblah 2>&1 | grep -v ALSA ).
I don't care that sound doesn't work on pygame. The application works perfectly just this annoying 6 line error message shows. I just want to get rid of the messages as it fills up my console everytime i run it.
We don't know why exactly ALSA is spouting these errors, but all we need to do is avoid ALSA. Pygame is built on top of SDL, so we can use all the same video and audio controls.
I have never heard of the ALSA lib so this error message confuses me. I have checked to see whether i have ALSA lib (sudo apt-get install alsa-utils