We're right now virtualizing 7 servers. There are some vendors that won't support virtualization...Exchange isn't supported, nor is Oracle, for example, but it can be done.
You may need to try it out to find out how well it works for your set of circumstances. We love it. It's lowered power requirements in our server room, we can back up the system state over the weekend, and it has helped monitor performance as well as helped with recovery plans should something happen to our server.
@tomjedrz makes a great point -- get two hardware boxes with headroom so you don't grind to a halt if one goes down.
We had one system running with an SQL database (a point of sale) that gave horrible performance when running under VMWare Server (Linux host, Windows guest) and we couldn't keep it virtualized long enough to troubleshoot it due to the hardship it placed on the users, so it was put on a physical system again. ESXi is the bare-metal type-one hypervisor and may give enough of a performance boost to handle it though (no plans to try it out).
We are able to get huge density with Hyper-V, on a Dell 2950 with dual dualcore cpus, 32GB memory and large hard drives we see upwards of 25 Windows VMs (1GB memory and 1 cpu). 
I run a small office consisting of a 8 man development team and a couple of managers. We're thinking of moving to a hardware setup whereby we have 1 single powerful server running several VirtualBox VMs - one for Samba fileshare acting as DC, another LAMP box for development, another for IE testing....etc....probably 4 or 5 VMs in total. The two crucial ones are the Samba box that runs our network, and then the dev LAMP box that most of our development is carried out on.
My first thought is that you shouldn't use Virtualbox as a server platform; it's great for desktop workstations, but as a server, you might want to look at the VMWare ESXi or hypervisor from XenSource, both free. I use it on a Dell 2950 (the ESXi solution), and you can copy things from the management interface on a Windows machine or run Veeam to copy it over.  Also if you decide to up the management side with a budget you can upgrade (at a high price, admittedly) to allow for things like live migration between two servers and better backup options.
You can assemble relatively inexpensive ESXi systems following guidelines from sites like here and here. It is very picky about hardware support; you'll want to look at the HCL to make sure you have something that works out of box or the whitebox sites for things that were tested.
VirtualBox is a great desktop virtualization solution it's not a great server solution. Hyper-V or ESX or XenServer are probably the route you should take.
The reason this sort of setup appeals to me is because I like the idea of being able to backup all the VMs overnight if necessary - and the restore should be quick and painless if we've got a barebones VirtualBox host.
I appreciate that for backing up the VMs will need to be powered down but I don't think that this is going to be a show-stopper. It may be that we decide to run Samba on the core host OS so there's no need to shut it down (we'll just sort out an rsync of the data).
At a high level, your approach is a perfectly acceptable solution, you just need to do some testing to make sure it will work in your environment.
So I'm just looking for some opinions on this "VM for everything" approach. Is this normal for businesses? Are there any clear issues with this or things that just won't be possible in comparison to physical boxes? Has anyone tried this and hit any major problems or has it worked out nicely?
Not to toot the Windows horn here, but I have the most experience with it. Hyper-V is a great hypervisor with simple and effective built-in backup using shadow copy. Supports snapshots and VM migration (not live, but you can move a VM from one host to another in 15-20 minutes depending on network and vhd size).