These questions aren't necessarily easier to deal with & will need to be addressed if you want to have a viable product. (If you're not making your game as a product, the intended audience is probably yourself).
Final comment on casting time not being included in the inspiration game: games often make choices to deal with constraints that might not be present to other developers at a later point in time &/or on a different platform. That doesn't mean the choices themselves were bad. Pixel graphics, permadeath, abstract logic games - these (and many more) were born out of necessity, but they still have value today.
However, I read this article about Final Fantasy Tactics. It's an interview with a developer of a new indie game inspired by FFT, who was also a dev in FFT. Basically he says that casting time won't be in the new game, and was only in FFT because of technical limitations (the game needed time to load the graphics of certain spells). Also, I notice that it hasn't appeared in any of the later Tactics games by Square, nor in many other tactical games that are self-confessed "clones" of FFT (Fell Seal, for example). I basically haven't seen delayed abilities in any tactical turn-based game since FFT.
In my PvP turn-based strategy, one of the balancing mechanisms for separating stronger from weaker abilities is their "delay", which is the number of turns it will take to actually execute that ability, from when it was commanded. For example, if you cast an ability with delay = 1, that unit won't use it until the start of your next turn. Most abilities have delay = 0, meaning it's used right when the command is given. It is clear when a unit is "casting" a delayed ability; they have an ongoing casting animation, there are tick marks above their head to count how many turns left for casting, and when you click on them, you see which tiles are targeted.
The mechanic is not a good fit. In this case to take it out, and see how it does. then check to see if it play tests well & if as a designer you are still evoking the experience you want. If it only sort of works, you may need to add in something else to add friction, evoke emotion, etc. Figuring this out can be one of the most difficult parts of design.
The play testers are not the intended audience. The good news is this lets you keep your game as is. The bad news is it leads to new questions like: 
The mechanic needs to be re-framed. Sometimes the problem is context. If the mechanic is critical to your vision & you genuinely believe you're testing with the correct groups, look for ways to present the same thing in a different context. For instance, you mentioned cool downs. In a way, a cool down is a "first one free, delay on next". Not exactly the same, but it may be similar enough to keep your vision & simultaneously more appealing to your audience.
These things make me wonder if delay is an inherently bad mechanic, and that there's a good reason developers have been avoiding it since FFT. Perhaps it just feels bad or clunky on the side of the user, and reduces their overall gaming experience.
It serves several purposes in my game. For one thing, I need to balance stronger vs weaker abilities somehow, and there's already a lot of other resources to keep track of (action points, gold, etc). I don't want to clutter the game with more resources, such as mana on individual units. Units can have "cooldown" (number of turns where they can't be used) after being used, so moving units into enemy territory with cooldown can be dangerous, because they're vulnerable to the more powerful "delay" abilities. Finally, some of them can just be used as a deterrent, such as casting a large AoE delayed ability to say "don't come into this territory". 
My stance is there aren't inherently bad mechanics. Different mechanics appeal to different people. However, it sounds like that particular set of play testing might have found a disconnect between this particular mechanic & your particular game.
The play testers are just reacting to push back. It's not uncommon for players to want more than they have. Sometimes you want "just one more move" or to equip more than one trinket or to buy both of two mutually exclusive skills. Just because something is annoying doesn't mean the mechanic that caused it is un-fun. Again, it comes down to testing & designer expertise. Consider adding something that under certain circumstances, allows players to break the delay effect rule. If that addition is seen as a necessity, there's probably a problem. If it's just seen as great to have if you can get it, then things are probably okay.
I also noticed, when playing the prototype of my game with some friends, that they were annoyed that some abilities didn't execute right away, even though it was advertised in their details that they have delay.
But, if you think that player base (your friends) do not like delay based abilities, then you can definitely try other alternative and check which has better response.
I have a few alternatives in mind. But my question is, are delayed abilities in turn-based strategies generally a bad mechanic?
It is the execution that matters. Often unique play styles are received badly (initially, due to prebuilt mindsets) but gain good traction later on.