Are there any production-quality iSCSI SANs suitable for use with Windows Server 2008/SQL Server for failover clustering?
SCST has at the very least an experimental patch for SCSI-3 persistance. I think this is just beginning to show up - I've been playing with RDBD and IET for a short while to build a cheap redundant ISCSI storage cluster and this pretty much bit me too right now, so it's time to test the other alternatives out there, lile nab's suggestion of LIO-Target.
I was thinking I could use Linux, something like DRBD + an iSCSI target would be fine. However, I haven't seen any free or low-cost iSCSI software that supports SCSI-3 persistent reservations, which Windows 2008 needs for failover clustering.
As for using software: On Windows, StarWind seems to have a great solution. But it's actually more money than buying a hardware SAN. (As I understand, only the enterprise edition supports having replicas, and that's $3000 a license.) 
I'm interested in seeing something suitable for failover in a production environment, but with very low IO requirements. (Clustering, say, a 30GB DB.)
Thecus's 5200pro (and some of their other models) is a 5-disk RAID NAS that can be configured to support iSCSI over one or two GigE ports. They might be quick enough for you but I will say that they only have a single power-supply so that might count against it's 'production quality'. By the way, the MSA2000i is a pretty good unit for the case.
So far, I've only seen Dell's MD3000i, and HP's MSA 2000 (2012i), which both are around $6K with a minimal disk configuration. Buffalo (yea, I know), has a $1000 device with iSCSI support, but they say it will not work for 2008 failover clustering.
If you absolutely have to insist on iSCSI, then yes, there are some in-the-middle solutions out there, although they do cost more than $1k.  Don't let the off-brand name fool you, we've been using a variant in eSATA form for over 2 years with no failures, no hiccups, and no downtime (that wasn't planned).  Performance has been good, 250Mb/sec sustained with 300Mb/sec peak, although our setup allows for some minimal (5 minute) downtime for failover.
I know $6K isn't much at all, just curious to see if there are practical cheaper solutions out there. And finally, yes, the software is expensive, but many small business get MS BizSpark, so the Windows 2008 Enterprise / SQL 2008 licenses are completely free.
Yes, Linux would give you a cheap-o iSCSI solution as well, although I'm not sure about your other requirements.