p.s. My apologies if this comes across as salesy...again I assure you, I just figured I can do my best to help. 
I've used both UltraDNS and DNSMadeEasy, although it has been years since I used UltraDNS.  UltraDNS's service was great from a technical point of view - and I'm sure it has only gotten better - but we parted ways over a billing error of their making.  (I'm sure they've got this issue sorted out by now, otherwise they'd be out of business.)
As you mention, UltraDNS has GeoDNS - although it's on DNSMadeEasy's road map (http://www.dnsmadeeasy.com/technology/roadmap.html), as well - and I suspect their anycast network may be larger than DNSMadeEasy's, but I don't know that for certain.  I can't speak to how either would handle a DoS attack, but I suspect they're both quite familiar with mitigating them.
I hope it isn't weird to ask this, but did you also look into Dynect? I work over at Dyn Inc., and people that usually look into UltraDNS usually talk with us as well. E-mail me rohara @ dyn [. ]com  and we can explain our comparison of everyone in more detail with you based on feedback we've heard. 
Ultimately, I expect the difference in price reflects the market each is targeting.  You probably won't go wrong choosing either - so why not choose both (or another pair of reputable DNS providers)?  If you can make two providers work together to provide DNS for your site, you remove your DNS provider as a single point of failure.
We believe an educated consumer is the best kind of consumer! Ryan (from Dyn) is right. We all have different reasons for being in the industry and all offer something different. 
Have you considered using OpenDNS at all? Obviously I'm unaware of the scale of your environment, but I know they have options available for all sizes.
Berry - you are getting very popular! Not sure who your UltraDNS rep is, but I would look forward to reviewing your quote and answering any questions you have about UltraDNS and our position in the marketplace as well. 
Overall..I'll say this briefly...there is a reason both companies exist...and a reason we're positioned where we are, and they are positioned where they are. 
DNSMadeEasy comes in at a substantially lower price point, as you've noticed, and I've had no complaints about their service in the five or so years I've used them.  The few times I've needed to contact support, their replies have been prompt and helpful.