Anyways my main focus was the tracking laser which to my surprise was actually just an LED in front of a reflector. so I took everything out to get to the reflector looked at it and tried to see any signs of rotation couldn't find any but I noticed it had a slot a bit bigger than the actually reflector so it would move around a bit and I'm assuming when I drop or jerk the mouse it moves which in turn might cause a rotation of the reflection (don't ask me how It's just a guess) 
Ok I found a fix but I don't exactly know how or why it works. So I've had this problem with my mouse many times. and I've tried just about everything the rotating screen updating drivers and yes restarting my computer and waiting ten seconds. none of them worked. however it seemed to just have fixed itself over time, which was strange. but it made sense since the issue would usually occur when my mouse had taken abusive force such as dropping it or making very fast movements with it, leading me to suspect its a hardware problem. 
My mouse has recently started a very strange behaviour in that left = up, right = down, up = right and down = left. i.e. it's like my mouse is rotated by 90 degrees. I have tried uninstalling the mouse, run spybot and still no joy. It's rather frustrating and I'm going loopy - literally.
Anyways so I just took the reflector out and not knowing what to do I just put it back in and plugged in the mouse and it worked again idk how. I coulda sworn I just put it in the way I found it I must've stabilized it by accident or brushed of a piece off dust in the reflector idk. but anyways it just worked.
I had that. Happened after the screen was rotated, and then rotated back to normal. Mouse wouldn't rotate back to normal.
I had this happen with a wireless USB mouse -- same issue with two different computers (Win 10). In my case it was fixed but turning the mouse itself off and on using the switch on the bottom. Sounds obvious, but I realized I never actually turn the mouse off, I normally just unplug the dongle and stick it back into the storage slot on the mouse.
So I decided to take it apart and just gut the whole thing out and take a look (I have very minimal knowledge in computers and electronics) I also decided to treat it as a learning moment seeing how a mouse works and how the buttons and inputs worked. the scroll wheel was the most fascinating.
Rotated the screen several times to different degrees of rotation, and then back to normal. Somehow shook it up and it came back to normal. 