Even if (05) and (C5) are zero, I would strongly suggest for you to go to the Error Scan tab and run it by clicking Start.  It may take hours if you have a one or two TeraByte drive; but, that is the surest test to verify the drive's operation.  If even one red box appears, you found the reason why your PC is freezing.
The BIOS will not boot with an exFat partition larger than 2TB if this partition was created in Windows (ver 7) or Mac OS (ver 10.8.5). 
The firmware code that decodes partition tables is often a real mess and causes headaches to everyone, not just you. Some people installing alternative operating systems run into this problem and you hear them complain "xxx broke my PC, it does not boot anymore" and then they want their Windows back for which the mainboard manufacturers run the most/only tests for their firmware.
Either way, the thing to do is to check the drive's health and there is a relatively easy way to do it.  Go to http://www.hdtune.com/download.html and download hdtunepro_560_trial.exe which is free for 15 days.  I'd suggest you save it before you install it; but, either way, you need to install it and run it.
The solution is often to detach the drive and update/rollback the BIOS firmware. It is also possible to change the partitioning in a way that the firmware is happy with it, but it can take time to find out what the firmware chokes at. Then, you can also try to change the SATA port (many mainboards have got more than one controller, so maybe it triggers other kinds of behaviors).
I tried 1Tb (HFS+ Journaled) + 3Tb (exFat). Won't boot. It seems any larger than 2Tb partition created in Windows or Mac will not boot past the Gigabyte BIOS.
I tried exFat partition in Windows both with 4Kb cluster size and 128Kb cluster size, no change. Won't boot.
The only case of drives freezing at POST I know of is because the BIOS firmware has bugs (assuming you ruled out a faulty drive). The background is that BIOS firmware tries to be smart and read partition tables on drives instead of just read the bootcode and boot right away. They analyse the partitioning in some cases to find special partitions containing extended functionality (restore partitions, extended service routines etc).
Select the drive from the drop down at the top and then look first on the Health tab.  The most important numbers are what is in the data (fourth) column for (05) Reallocated Sector Count and (C5)Current Pending Sector.  If either one of them is not zero, plain and simple, the drive is failing.  As long as it's there, you might want to look at (BF) G-sense Error Rate.  The number in the data (fourth) column is how many times the drive has detected excessive shocks.
If the exFat partition was created in Linux, it's ok if it is larger than 2TB. It boots fine with a 4TB exFat partition created in Linux.