32-bit software usually runs fine on 64-bit Windows 7 (and Vista). Since I started using Vista 64-bit (around the time it got released), I've only experienced problems two times and only one was a complete failure. An average user should not have any problems using 32-bit software  when 64-bit is not available. 
Ontop of that, if you are using your laptop for heavy-lifting applications that require a lot of memory, then 64bit is better. Though with 2gb of RAM it's barely going to make any difference for you, as 64bit excels because it can support more than the ~3gb limit of 32 bit windows. So the advantage is once you have more than 4gb of ram.
My choice would be stick with 32 bit Windows 7, as a laptop (atleast one that only has 2gb of RAM) is probably not going to be used for any of those applications, or gaming.
You are also likely to find some installers refuse to install on a 64bit version too, mostly from dumb installers looking at registry keys.
I think these days the reverse goes. Unless you have hardware that does not have supported 64-bit drivers, or you have applications that are absolutely not going to work on 64, I'd say pick 64-bit.
If you are certain that you won't be upgrading to 4GB+ ram, it doesn't really matter I think. If you have a 64-bit CPU it might be nice to have 64-bit windows too though... especially since it sounds cooler :p
The heavy-lifting applications usually are 3D software: Maya, 3DS Max, or graphics applications such as Photoshop and Gimp. Also gaming on 64bit gives slightly faster framerates, though that's a product of the processor and motherboard not the operating system. Your existing games may not work on 64 bit Windows.
For any PC with less than 3GB of RAM I would go for 32-bit Windows. If you plan on upgrading your RAM and you are sure you can get 64-bit drivers for all your hardware, go with 64-bit Windows. You probably won't find many Windows 7 drivers yet, but 64-bit Vista drivers should do fine. 
Do 64bit drivers exist for your laptop? Check that before you do anything, as lot of hardware companies don't have any available. If you can't find Windows 7 drivers, usually the Vista drivers will work.
It is only a matter of time before you put more memory into the machine. Also, since 64-bit has a larger addressable memory space (even if there is no physical memory available to cover it), some applications will actually work better because they can provide apps with more virtual memory.