The only exception to the "not forward to any other VLAN" is when an encapsulated packet is routed on a layer-3 switch. But then again, routing requires to strip the encapsulating L2 frame anyway and to reencapsulate for the destination segment, so the new VLAN ID is just another part to generate.
In a simple topology of a single switch with two Access ports configured, for example fa0/1 on VLAN 10 and fa0/2 on VLAN 20, how does a switch know not to send broadcasts between these vlans if they are access ports and thus untagged. As they are unchanged Ethernet frames sent by hosts on these VLANs until they are tagged by a trunk port, how does a switch differentiate them internally?
Essentially every frame will be marked with its VLANs as it is stored in the switch.  Frames arriving on access ports get tagged with the VLAN they were configured with; frames arriving on trunk ports get the VLAN of their tag, or default if they were untagged.
Also, the switch has to filter for broadcasts, so that they are only flooded to the VLAN members. You can do this during the process that generates the copies of the original broadcast frame or (simpler) copy a broadcast to all ports and on each port you tag and filter as required by the port's config.
The switch works by "store-and-forward": it accepts all the incoming frames, decides what to do with them, then forwards them out of the appropriate ports.
The two ports are configured for different native VLANs.  The switch assumes or defaults the VLAN membership of untagged packets based on how that port is configured.  
One of the most important things a switch does is decied to throw some frames away if they don't have anywhere they need to go. 
The most obvious approach is to split the MAC source-address table, so that each VLAN has its own table (or use the VLAN ID as extension to each MAC in a global table). Within the switch, a frame needs to keep its VLAN association (likely as an expansion of the destination MAC field) and must not be forwarded to any other VLAN. Obviously, frames received without a tag need to be associated with their VLAN immediately on ingress.