That's all fine in theory, but we all know that servers go offline for other reasons too, hardware failures, network problems, software hangs, and these are not something you can easily predict, but it would be advisable to fit in time for unpredictable events.
The harder part is in an emergency - how long will it take you to get to the server, identify the problem and fix it. In that case four hours might not be enough (99.44%). 
In theory the only thing you should need to take the server offline for is for applying updates, which should be at most once a week. You can work out your downtime for these by timing how long your server takes to reboot.
All these things factored in will give you your predicted uptime, and it may be that your actual uptime is better than this if you have no faults, not upgrades etc, but its better to be cautious.
There's not really a standard figure we can quote you, by itself server 2003 is a very stable system, but the uptime you can expect depends on a number of variable factors.
But unless you start cluster stuff with failovers, etc, there really is no way you can do an SLA for everything else.  What happens if you do the updates, reboot the server and it doesn't come up?  Or it gets a virus, or the drive controller dies, the issues could be endless. 
In a 30 day month there are 43,200 minutes. 99.75% uptime is 43,092 - which gives you 108 minutes of downtime to perform any scheduled maintenance. That should be more than enough, although I think it is ok to write into the SLA major maintenance (including but not limited to upgrades) planned in advance is excluded from the SLA.
Finally your going to want to factor in time for planned upgrades or changes, is the use of the server likely to increase over time, will it need upgrades to cope with the change?
You can plan an SLA for updates, ie down once per week for up to 2 hours for instance assuming everything goes fine.
What would I expect? Minimum 99.5% (which sounds low) but that at least gives you a chance. Most months you will be near 100.00%. Don't go higher (than 99.5) if client isn't paying for it...
Do the SLA as I will respond to an outage within 1 hour, but the time to resolve or work around that outage will vary as it cannot be anticipated.
You'd be better to specify the SLA for applying updates and an SLA for responding to issues that come up.  
I've been looking after colocated windows servers since 2000, and in all that time I can recall 4 outages caused by the firewall failing (separate hardware, 2x catastrophically), 1 DoS attack on the network (not against our servers but impacted), as well as a couple of significant scheduled maintenance windows required by the data center. The Windows servers themselves... other than applying the patches or service packs I can't think of any. (quickly touchwood)