It (mouse over effect) likely exists for the same reason why the vast majority of windows applications have a Icon > Menu > Restore / Move / Size / Minimize / Maximize.  If you can have a shotcut key, you're likely to have a button/menu combination associated with it.  I never understood the reasoning for having this menu and include a menu option for Move when the title bar is right next to it... unless you consider automation tools that tangentially link into the UI.
Short-cuts are used mainly by power users.  Typical users are not usually aware they exist, and it can be hard to teach people who are not good with computers why something happens if they don't see the virtual extension of their hand (the mouse pointer) actually go ahead and change something.
Also, if you are working with the mouse a lot, say web browsing, and you want to quickly check an RSS feed, the weather, a webcam, any kind of real-time gadget you might have on the desktop, it is a really easy spot to hit: slide all the way down and to the right.
My guess is that Aero Peek was added for consistency. If you are able to peek at a window by hovering on the window's thumbnail, you should be also able to do it with the desktop, which, after all, is a window by itself (it does show with the other windows when you press Win-Tab)
There are tools that don't make UI calls, but they can find a button in a window, and press it.  There are also accessibility tools that can only interact via these controls.  For every control that has a keyboard-only method, there usually exists a mouse-only method.  I'll admit there are a lot of shortcuts that don't make sense, but for completeness I can understand why they exist.
And, if you have gadgets, the Aero Peek is definitely useful, just as useful as when you hover on your Twitter app thumbnail to peek at your timeline.
The "Show Desktop" (bottom right of screen) part of Aero Peek is used to see gadgets on the desktop without messing with your window layout.
Windows has this kind of placement for a lot of their key UI pieces.  The close button is all the way to the top right, and the start button is all the way to the bottom left.  Actually you will even notice on dual monitor setups that there is a bit of a hitch which traps your mouse if you dont move too fast past one of these points (actually only tested on the start button)