I strongly agree that standard placement of Ctrl is no-go for pinky (especially RCtrl which is often farther than LCtrl) given that how many keyboard shortcuts involve Ctrl.
I've swapped LCtrl with Tab using xmodmap and I press the remapped Tab with pinky and remapped LCtrl with palm.
The problem with this one is that the Ctrl button is too close to the Z button. I have to bend my pointer and my pinky until they almost touch.
I think it works well in that sense you don't usually press and hold Tab so you don't end up with your hand in different postion during Ctrl+ chords. However you loose pinky during e.g. Ctrl+a compared to pressing LCtrl with palm, but this issue is no different from standard usage w/o palm.
You could try a different keyboard. A smaller one may fit your hand better. In fact, you may want to look into an ergonomic keyboard that feels good to you for general use, not just Chrome.
I had no problem with the dell doing this, but with the new microsoft keyboard I'd better learn how to use another finger for the Z.
After just a couple of days I'm feeling pain in the articulations. I do 3D and I probably hit Ctrl, Shift, alt, Z, X, C, V combinations about 20 times a minute. Funny I never had a problem with my dell keyboard (over 3 years of use). I guess "one-size-fits-all" doesn't go with keyboards.
The pinky strain depends on your compatibility with the keyboard. I recently bought an expensive Microsoft ergonomic wireless keyboard (because my old dell one was too noisy) and while it's great for typing, it's a pinky-killer.
Abandon the home row with your left hand! Having been a PC gamer for over a decade, my left hand rests on the following keys: Shift, A, W, D, Space. From here, you can reach Ctrl without breaking a sweat. As a bonus, you can tell your boss that the extended gaming sessions at your work desk are for "training".
Bottom line - try to find a quality keyboard based on reviews. Once bought, try to adapt to it if it doesn't feel natural. Try switching fingers (hard, I know) and ultimately, if you can't get used to it, buy another one. No point in sacrificing your health over a few $$$. A bottle of painkillers may cost as much as a proper keyboard :)