Obviously, you don't have the time or money to keep installing the operating system from the ground-up whenever somebody breaks something. So un-attended installs and ghosting are your friend (ghost or partition image f.e.).
The business plan may need to factor in a time = money model, either by direct pay as you go, moral obligation to buy a beverage/snack, or maybe indirect temptation to buy something that looks good while you're there.
For the gamers I would avoid always buying the latest hardware, it simply doesn't generate enough revenue to be affordable. Try medium-range stuff.
I also haven't figured out how to handle those overstaying their welcome.  If there are no time limits, the stations will all be taken by local kids who spend the least and take the most.
You have two very specific needs here. The gamers will need at least medium-grade gaming rigs while your 'café' type users couldn't care less about the hardware they use. They need email, browsing and messaging.
Building is the easy part.  Maintaining will be the challenge.  Real gamer types will find it hard to play on commodity keyboards, mice, and controllers.  But when I've shelled out thousands for the good stuff, I'll find it hard to handle users destroying them.
I have wondered about this myself and it is hard to perfectly make use of the housing, being attractive to gamers while maintaining an attractive 'café' appeal so the tourists won't run away.
I think you should be mostly concerned about security. Anyone can drop a few thousand dollars on computer equipment and connections.
This is a tricky business because these two customer groups are extremely different in many ways. Gamers like to yell at each other while bouncing rockets in Quake Arena while tourists like their peace and quiet while browsing their email, blogging, etc. Gamers prefer dark areas where the glare doesn't mess with their 'fragging skills'. Tourists like open, bright areas. 
To play up the Gaming aspect, I would invest in network cards from Bigfoot Networks.  If you can provide the best experience possible, people will come back.
The only thing these two groups have in common is that both groups will likely buy a lot of caffeine and food. 
For the café types, I would just invest in Atom based mini computers and focus on the 'café' appeal in that specific area, this means more lightning that the gamers are used to.