I would recommend you disabling the log of the device manager. This is exactly one of those things which you'll forget to enable once your server gets internet connection. Furthermore no ones seams to be sure how the device manager service interacts with WSUS?
1.Start Local Group Policy Object Editor. Click Start , and then in the Start Search box, type mmc gpedit.msc.
Can I simply disable the "Device Setup Manager" in services to prevent these warnings?  I worry because in the description for this service it states "If this service is disabled, devices may be configured with outdated software, and may not work correctly".  Has anyone else disabled this service and if so, did you encounter any issues?  Or if I should keep this service enabled, is there some configuration I am missing for a computer not connected to the internet?  FYI, normal Windows Updates on this server work as expected by checking our WSUS server.
Device Setup Manager just goes out and pings windows update every night to see if any devices that are installed and set up to use windows up date to update drivers.  
3.Open Local Computer Policy , Computer Configuration , Administrative Templates , System , Internet Communication Management , and then Internet Communication Settings .
2.If the User Account Control dialog box appears, confirm that the action it displays is what you want, and then click Yes .
Since this is an internal server there probably aren't too many devices attached to it who's drivers update frequently.  It shouldn't matter too much to disable it, so long as you have the drivers up to date.  
I would be a little concerned that it can't connect to WSUS, WSUS should bring down hardware updates too if you tell it to.  Maybe if WSUS is a version previous to 2012 the DriverSetupManager service doesn't play nice.
I have a Windows 2012 server that is running SQL and therefore doesn't have any internet connectivity at all (only access to the domain network).  I have it configured to receive updates via a WSUS server on our local network.  I am getting numerous warnings in the event log for this server under the source of DeviceSetupManager with the following details: