It's already done with law enforcement and cell phone companies (conversations and GPS data). Quite common there, but you're asking about server and data hosting, not telecommunications.
You're asking questions that kind of have two components...is it possible? Yes. Much like your browser in "private browsing mode" now still has your web history traceable at the ISP level, your hosts holding your server(s) can see your data traffic (if it's unencrypted), and depending on the host arrangement if they have admin login to your server they could get into it (and if they really wanted to they could break into the server, but you should notice if you have monitoring software that your server went down...if you want to be paranoid, they could have stolen an image of the server to forensically analyze later out of your view).
But it's more than possible, especially if they're in the US and have a warrant from the FBI to get data on your company. If it's like libraries, they are told they have to turn over the data without informing you that they're doing it, or collect data traffic and turn it over without telling you. Encrypt everything and you make it much harder.
Sysadmins can read, access and interpret everything you store and do on their systems, databases included. The only thing they cannot interpret is any of your encrypted files (unless they have installed a keylogger on their GUI or their command line shell, said keylogger would allow them to obtain your passphrase and thereby decrypt your files). 
Is it common? I would venture not, but I don't work for a hosting company. They probably have better things to do than sniff through your servers when they have hundreds or more clients and potential lawsuits and reputation damage if an ex-employee goes around talking about cool stuff they gleaned from XYZ corporation's servers.
as far as hosting companies, as Bart have mentioned that they have loads of other jobs to do instead of sniffing through anyone's data ; but most of the theft in retail industry, computing industry is from the inside. so stay away of hosting anything which you do not want to share with anyone.
Bottom line is that they are the admins, it's their job to manage the server and the data on it, so they need access to it.  You could try encrypting stuff, but you would only cause problems for yourself longer term.  Worst case would be that if the host had to restore a load of data for you following a hardware failure, they may not be able to get it back.  And you wouldn't have a leg to stand on as it would have been you who had locked them out.