Note the windows service that uses this port will only listen on port 139 of the default IP address of the enabled NIC, not any of the other assigned IP's.
It rather depends on what you have got listening on 139. The vulnerability of a given port depends entirely on the software that an attacker can reach via that port. 
If you're talking about a firewall that protects more than one server, you could also look at rules that only allow 139 traffic to a specific server. 
A great book that covers much of this information (including the "Why's" behind the security decisions you must make) is Protect Your Windows Network: From Perimeter to Data by Steve Riley and Jesper Johansson. 
That is assuming you are sitting on a windows server domain controller of course, for anything else opening this port up would be ridiculous (for its intended use anyway!).
"Do you want to take your Domain controllers and put them on an internet facing network connection without blocking/filtering access to port 139 (or many other ports)? Do you want to plug a home computer with Windows ME and file/print sharing enabled directly into your cable modem without having a router filtering connections or a firewall enabled on your computer? Of course not."
Do you want to take your Domain controllers and put them on an internet facing network connection without blocking/filtering access to port 139 (or many other ports)? Do you want to plug a home computer with Windows ME and file/print sharing enabled directly into your cable modem without having a router filtering connections or a firewall enabled on your computer? Of course not.
Port 139 is typically used for file/printer sharing, including directory replication with Active Directory, trusts, remote access of event logs, etc.
Presumably this question doesn't come out of nowhere, so you must have a reason for wanting to open this port. Somebody wants to use it, right? So you need to find out what software they want to run, find out it's patch level, investigate known vulnerabilities and make a judgement. 
So... if you just block port 139 on a Domain Controller just because you read somewhere on the internet that that port is "bad", or because you are following some generic hardening checklist you found on the internet; you will kill AD replication.  If you block 139 in a typical business network, you will lose the ability to do much of anything on a remote computer (remotely manage clients/servers, install software, share printers, files...)  Not good in a managed environment, unless you like sending a technician onsite anytime you need to do something to a computer.  Heck, you could be SUPER secure and just disable network cards altogether, and use floppy disks to move bits around.  You could disable port 80 on your Apache Web Server because of the possibility of cross-site-scripting vulnerabilities.  You could block port 1433 to reduce instances of SQL injection attacks.  (all right, I'll quit now ;)
Ports are not vulnerable, they are just ports.  Services that listen on particular ports may have remotely exploitable vulnerabilities, or misconfiguration of services that listen on particular ports may lead to unintended consequences.  The last remote exploits that targeted NetBIOS/139 were in the Windows NT/2000 day to the best of my recollection.
The key is understanding the purpose and requirements of the services enabled on your network, understand the threats that face them, and understand appropriate mitigations.