You also have lots of 3rd party products that can archive Exchange data, but I am not sure how they would work in a hosted environment.
You can also use the Sync Slider in Outlook to ensure only a limited set of data are downloaded to the OST file (this needs Outlook 2013 or 2016). This would be difficult to manage without GPO's.
(I'm answering this because it's a subject near and dear to me, but it's a borderline question for ServerFault because it's got a huge "user management" component in additional to the technical aspects.)
You have a few choices. You could create the users an Exchange Archive, and create a retention policy to move data into the archive (you can specify time). This would move data out of the primary mailbox and prevent OST bloat. 
Another thing I suspect you need to look at is document management.  If you have users with gigabytes of email, I'm sure what you really have is people with gigabytes of attachments.  Your users are keeping all those emails with (probably lots of redundant) attachments because they've gotten in the habit of using email for document management... they're essentially using emails as meta-data to the documents.
Although implementing new business processes to better manager your documents and information isn't strictly a technical issue, if you're in charge of IT, this is an area where you can support the business by finding better technology for people to use.  
If that's the case, there are other tools for Outlook and Exchange that can give you more control over attachments, and if your users are relying on email to store documents with context, then the other tools you could look at are for extracting emails from Outlook.
One major problem I am coming across frequently though is that users' Outlook data files are reaching massive amounts (such as 49gb) and as you can imagine it causes some issues. We use Microsoft exchange hosted through Rackspace. Our employees claim they need to retain these emails since we are a Title Insurance company. 
My question is: Is there a better way to split that data files apart and just retain the files they need at the moment and have the deleted emails backed up for viewing later? Yes I know I can trying exporting the deleted emails folder to an outlook data file, but that file itself would be massive and take many hours to complete the backup for each user. If this is the best way I can probably do it overnight, but I'm just seeking a more graceful/fast way to handle this. I have a feeling anything I do with those emails is going to take time though. This probably sounds like a dumb question, but our users are very picky and change scares the crap out of them.  
As Sven said in comments, if you have legal retention requirements, you need a proper archiving solution.  You tagged this exchange, and if that's correct, there are numerous archiving, retention, and policy enforcement tools available.
I have recently inherited a mess of an IT system (we don't even use a domains and group policy despite having a server). 