I would like to get started in Python Numpy Scipy scikit-learn and pandas etc. but just reading up Wikipedia articles or Python textbooks is going to be infeasible for me.
I am currently unemployed, fresh out of university, scouting around for jobs and thought it would be good if I get some Kaggle projects under my profile.
There is an online data science "game" that takes you from learning how to use Python for loading a csv and using scikit to machine learning algorithms such as support vector machines. Here is a blog post with a demo video and the actual site is Explore Data Science. Personally, I think its genius. 
I have used a little bit of Python, in a university project, but I dont know the fundamentals like what is a package , etc etc. ie havent read the intricacies of the language using a standard Python Textbook etc..
However, I have very little knowledge in either language. Have used Matlab and C/C++ in the past. But I haven't produced production quality code or developed an application or software in either language. It has been dirty coding for academic usage all along.
As far as learning the languages go, Coursera, Udacity, Code Acadmey, and Code School have great tutorials.  I would recommend taking a look at the following:
Have done some amount of coding in C/C++ way back (3-4 years back then switched over to Matlab/Octave).
Also, Green Tea Press offers free books on related topics such as an intro to Python and using python with Probability and Stats.  http://www.greenteapress.com/index.html
There are really so many good resources now.  If you want to stay away from textbooks, both O'Reilly Media and Packt Publishing offer much lighter but effective reading on a lot of great topics.  These books are much more applied in practice.  
I can only recommend Advanced R by Hadley Wickham. I think it is at the same time incredibly rich in content and easy to read. You say you have zero knowledge in R, but I believe since you already have programming skills in other languages this book can complement very fruitfully any classical "R beginner manual" (for the latter see here). 