Please excuse my noob-ness, I am still in the process of learning wireless networking, and sometimes the terminology is strange. For instance, on a wired network, a bridge is a box with two NICs, negotiating between two networks (e.g. 192.168.1.x and 10.0.0.x). On a wireless network, a bridge is something like two boxes with an antenna each, acting like a straight piece of CAT5 cable on the same subnet, without the connected boxes even noticing that they are using a piece of wireless network...
The short answer: this is by design and is expected behavior. Your router's IP address has likely changed based on the DHCP from your modem.
Now, once I configure the WR850G as an Acess Point (the options are "Router" and "Access Point"), I lose access to the browser config interface. I know this has to happen once I give it another IP, but why does it seem to become inaccessible when it is put in the Access Point mode? Does it somehow lose its own assigned IP (192.168.1.200) when being put into this mode?
By changing from router to AP mode you're basically asking it only send and receive WIFI but lose all of the routing functions. Consider all of the things that your router usually does: dhcp, firewall, network routing, etc. This all gets shut off and relies on another device to provide those services. 
This should allow it to get an IP address lease from your existing DHCP server on your LAN, and it should bridge packets between its WLAN, LAN, and WAN ports.
Hopefully this helps - but feel free to comment to clarify anything I may have missed or assumed incorrectly about your configuration.
The Motorola WR850G does NOT have a built-in DSL modem. Its WAN port is an Ethernet, which you could hook into a separate DSL or Cable modem. It can get is IP address from your upstream home gateway (which is probably a NAT gateway router and DHCP server in one), but it may only be able to do that over its WAN port. So configure its WAN port to get its address via DHCP, then configure it to be an AP, then connect its WAN port into your LAN.
I know that a firmware like DD-WRT would likely work on this router, but before flashing DD-WRT onto the router, I would like to fully understand the original features it offers with its own firmware, version 6.1.4.
I have a Motorola WR850G wireless router that I'm trying to use not as a typical router (DSL in, one wired and wireless home network out), but as a box that extends a subrange of my home net (192.168.1.x) to wireless clients with DHCP.
What does it do when I configure it as an access point, anyway? What is a wireless access point? The definition seems to be unclear.
In such scenario you'd want a primary server providing your DHCP functionality and APs placed strategically within your buildings where you want wireless access. You'd connect to any of the APs (likely all the same SSID), it reaches back to your main server for DHCP information and gives your computer its IP address.
In the LAN settings, I give the WR850G the IP 192.168.1.200 and tell it to offer DHCP addresses in the range from 192.168.1.201 to 192.168.1.254. This works. I can even ping a smartphone that got accepted via DHCP at 192.168.1.201 from another box inside of my wired home net.
...................................[Wireless Clients (192.168.200-254)]........................................
Then you should be able to reach its admin interface by pointing your browser (on any client machine on your [W]LAN) at whatever IP address your AP was given by your DHCP server. You might choose to give your AP a static IP address from within the private IP subnet that your existing home gateway router uses for your LAN. That way you'll always know what IP address it'll be using.
This is helpful if you're in an environment that needs multiple places to connect to wireless (like a school or business). If you kept it in router mode you'd be segregating your network all over the place - someone on wireless router #1 couldn't automatically and easily talk to someone on wireless router #2 (without your intervention at least). 
If this is the case let me suggest that there isn't much point in having a split DHCP range like that if you want everything to talk together anyway. You could leave your router in router mode and make your DHCP range something like 192.168.1.50-254 and this would still give you a decent range for static IP assignments for anything like a server that will need to keep a consistent IP. This would mean that all of your connections will be going through that router, that is, you'll need to ensure all of your wired gear goes through your router's LAN ports while your DSL modem is plugged into your WAN port of the router.