Also, I'm not sure if this is the kind of thing you are looking for or not, but there are some recent results on realizibility of scale-free networks, showing that they exhibit two phase transitions which seems to have just been accepted to PRL. A preprint entitled "All scale-free networks are sparse" can be found as arXiv:1106:5150.
The first goes over how to find equilibria in games or spin systems like you described. Certain meta-strategies for strategy adoption (specifically the one identical to Gibbs Sampling that leads to a correlated equilibria) allow very general, tractable analyses.
The way you formulate your question makes it sound like you care about dynamics, but since what you are looking for seems to be a steady state solution, ground states seem like a much more productive route to go down.
Such methods not only take into account local properties of the graph (e.g. degree distribution) but also global (e.g. connectivity, presence or absence of shortcuts). In particular, the spectrum is directly related to number of pairs, triangles and to the shortest path (see the second reference).
In general, you may be interested in spectral methods in graph theory, as they are a powerful tool. You can analyze the eigenvalues of adjacency matrix of the graph (or of the Laplacian matrix of the graph).  
The second attempts to predict large fluctuations or change in "norms" in an evolutionary game theory model using large deviations theory. The examples tackled are small-scale, but the author attempts to make the mathematical machinery he uses as general and powerful as possible, so it may be applicable to your case.
Since you want to go beyond pairwise approximation, the most natural candidate technique seems to be matrix product states, which is a pretty hot topic at the moment for dealing with quantum ground states. The way this approach works is basically by introducing maximally entangled pairs between nodes, and at each node introducing a projector. By adding higher dimensional systems you'll capture more features of the graph. I know your problem probably isn't quantum, but I don't see why this technique still shouldn't work. You should be able to simply replace the entangled states with $\frac{1}{2}(|00\rangle \langle 00| + |11\rangle \langle 11|).$