Long time ago (in 198x) i did this for heatsinking high power audio transistors in a 2x300W amplifier, because thermal paste was not easily available at those times in Romania. The oil runs well for years, but the surface was quite large and thermal requirements were not so high as in modern processors (some 3 cmp per power transistor case versus less than 1 cmp for processor).
You (or anybody else in kind of emergency) can just use regular (comestible) oil, or mineral oil which will be better if avail. for several weeks will work perfectly. Howerver, it will be mandatory to replace the oil with thermal paste after a while, because oil will polymerize and dry up in time.
I remember hearing about this at Dan's Data a while back, and he went back and forth with Arctic Silver's Nevin on the issue.
I've been using a rebuild with toothpaste on my Thinkpad T42 for about 3 years, with no problems.  These laptops, however, are known for running cooler than most thinkpads, to begin with, and we don't play very many 3-D games on those ATI 9600's, so the load on the toothpaste is not very high.  If you are worried about the paste drying out, just use A LOT.  The only part that will dry out is the stuff on the edges of the CPU, and if you are generous with the paste, there should continue to be a large amount in the middle of the CPU that is thoroughly wet ... or use 25% vaseline and 75% paste... or 25% grease and 75% paste.  Grease is basically oil & soap, to keep the oil from drying out.
http://forums.overclockersclub.com/topic/164465-you-got-your-peanutbutter-on-my-cpu-you-got-your-cpu-in-my-peanut/?p=1680970
http://forums.overclockersclub.com/topic/164465-you-got-your-peanutbutter-on-my-cpu-you-got-your-cpu-in-my-peanut/
Remember, toothpaste drops the temperature by 20 degrees, even after 12-hours of burn-in, and arctic silver 5 drops it by 29 degrees at most.  So toothpaste gets you 69% to cooling nirvana, even after the dry-out period.
I think the basic idea was that toothpaste will dry up faster than true thermal paste, perhaps leaving you a lot worse off than if there was nothing at all.  So, if you like removing your heatsink as much as I do, then no, it's not ok.