You can use any SNMP-enabled (or having some sort of counters in it's management interface) switch to see the bandwidth usage on each port, but it will not tell you what your users actually doing, it will even can't tell local traffic apart from internet. And if there's more than 1 machine on a single port, you will not find which one is consuming the bandwidth.
Anyone have any clues to tell me what devices I should be looking for .. or what features on a device .. which does this type of thing?
I'm trying to find a small hardware device (eg. a modem/router? firewall?) that can tell me who (private LAN IP addresses) is connecting to what other (public) IP's and their up/down speeds**.
I would like to see which devices are connecting to where and are downloading what. NOW BEFORE PEOPLE GET ANGRY HERE ... I do not want to see the actual content or file names, etc .. just that Ip addy 192.168.0.69 is consuming 52 k/s from mozilla.org (eg. downloading firefox) etc..
On the other side, you can use a router that can show all connections in it's management interface. It's mostly a software feature, not hardware. I've seen something similar in MikroTik and newer ZyXEL devices. But when you have a lot of connections, there'll be a real mess.
Now .. the main reason for this is not to be mean, but .. lots of users don't know that they have the entire flickr photo gallery silently sync'ing or that their dropbox is quietly syncing, etc.
Also having a switch that can mirror all traffic to some dedicated port will allow you to use some sniffing software to see who goes where. For example, EtherApe can draw a connection graph that will help you to get a quick look on what's going on.
so this means I can at least go over to the device which could be consuming a lot of bandwidth and fix the problem (or ask them to stop for a wee bit).
At our small office (around 20 odd staff, depending on who's in/wtf/flown in) sometimes our internet traffic slows down due to lots of internet usage == our download and/or upload pipe getting saturated.