Every second, the computer was checking the cd/dvd player for a possible disc presence. So I placed a formatted but blank content DVD disc within the cd/dvd player, and the blinking stopped.  If I just left it there, the blinking would not return.
I had the same problem on my Vaio laptop.  Disabling the DVD drive (I rarely use it) fixed the blinking.  I had the additional concern of excessive writes though because I recently installed a SSD and I understand their lifetimes are typically limited by the number of write/erase cycles.
I used Windows 7's System Configuration (msconfig) to start up in diagnostic mode (very minimal services and start up items) and lo and behold, ALL writing stopped.  Nothing worked :-) but no writes.  I then used msconfig to enable just the Microsoft stuff and most funtionality I wanted was there.  There were also sporadic writes but much less than normal start up.  I got back the rest of the functionality I wanted by enabling a few key services and start up items from Intel and Sony.
Now I've got no blinking and a lot less writes to the SSD.  Start up and shutdown are also faster though they were already fast due to the SSD.  I go from power button to useful desktop in about 15s.
IE opens at msn.com instantaneously.  Full Security Essentials scans went from 3-4h to 30m.  I also do java compiles which I don't have measurements on but I subjectively feel had gains similar to virus scans.  I'm a happy camper.
The SSD and the CD/DVD player SATA cables were both plugged into the SATA 3 connectors on the mother board. However, there was one SATA 2 connector that was still left unused. So I switched the cd/dvd player from the SATA 3 connector on over to the SATA 2 connector.
At the suggestion of someone on Microsoft Technet I downloaded SysInternals and used Process Explorer (procexp) to monitor disk writes (one of the graph icons on top).  I also used diskmon to give a very detailed view of writes.  I found a lot writes happening when "idle" so...
Select View menu and then Select Columns. In the Select Columns window, select the Process Performance tab. Tick I/O Reads and I/O Writes. Click OK. 
My system running Windows 7 does this too because it's polling the optical drive as mentioned in other answers. My fix is to open my DVD drive tray and then close it. After doing that, the blinking stops for some reason. Unfortunately this means I have to remember to do it every time I reboot my computer.
Per SSD suggestions I also disabled scheduled defrags, most logging and all fetching and indexing using Windows and SSD Tweaker (downloadable tool).