Recently I resolved a bunch of major performance problems for a customer. They had over 7000 iptables rules to blacklist various IPs. Removing these fixed major network performance issues. It 
If you want to go the IP banning route with iptables, then use fail2ban. It will watch your log files for bad IPs and block them for defined amount of time.
In most cases you can ignore invalid requests - those are worms or automatic scripts blindly trying to exploit security holes which might or might not be there. Hold on to Sameers advice of patching up your system and applications (especially your PHP applications, as they usually are quite erroneous and are exploited frequently). Only act on traffic if it is impacting your server's performance (e.g. a large number of non-legitimate requests is using a lot of your server's resources). Even a plentiful bunch of iptables rules would hardly cause any load with modern hardware.
I'm trying to figure out how to protect my server against what it seems to be a botnet (I'm just guessing)
First I thought about logging all those IP's based on both a) the fact that they are making invalid requests and b) the amount of request per unit of time, and then just run a cron that grabs those ips and adds rules to iptables to drop their packets.
Instead insure that your application  and OS is secure. Keep up with the security patches whenever possible and follow secure coding guidelines. Also configure the services correctly, one of the biggest security flaw is mis-configured services.
Everyday, more and more IP's fill my application logs with invalid request (eg: GET requests to url's that should be receiving only POST requests)
Creating a blackhole route for unwanted hosts probably performs better. This could mean having a lot of extra small routes, but Linux handles that fine.
This is part of the Internet noise which all Internet connected computers experience, unfortunately we don't live in a perfect world. Trying to prevent it is like playing a cat and mouse game. You can use Iptables rate-limiter to limit the number of incoming requests from an IP but thats about it. 
Don't bother with IP banning rules - as you suspected, source IPs can be faked, an automatic ban would just create another denial of service attack vector against your host.