Another potential problem with mail is the reverse dns setting. Sometimes, the destination servers check who you claim to be by checking your source ip against the domain that you claim to represent. You may need to set this up with your DNS provider.
In any event make sure to enable logging in the properties of the IIS SMTP server and then check the logs after you receive an NDR. If there are no entries in the log file that correspond to the email that generated the NDR then I would suspect a problem with the IIS server's dns client being able to resolve the MX record for the recipient's domain. If there are entries in the log file that correspond to the email that generated the NDR, then the SMTP status codes in the log file should clue you in to what's happening.
You should first check that you can actually connect to the destination SMTP mail server from your internal server. You can do that by telnet <destination server> 25 and see if you get the greeting. Sometimes, some places filter out port 25 connections as a spam prevention policy.
The number of users that report you as spam and the number of bad email addresses you send to will also affect your ability to send.
You'll also be better off if you submit the IP(s) to the various whitelist / bulk sender lists, such as AOL and yahoo.
Some mailservers will limit your connections until you establish that IP address as a safe sender.  This takes several things - you have to adhere to best practives for settings up:
Where is the NDR coming from, presumably your IIS SMTP server, although I don't work with IIS SMTP very often so I'm not sure if the IIS SMTP server is capable of generating NDR's.
Just because your application isn't sending spam doesn't mean that another app on the shared host isnt. Since it's a shared host, all smtp traffic comes from the same source, which can end up being blocked.
Finally, if you are sending emails from users that aren't on your domain, you're likely to always have some issues.  You might try sending from a specific email address, and just changing the from name and "reply-to" address in the email.
Who are you hosting your application with? I've had problems with shared hosts having all sites hosted on their servers blacklisted into the spam hole.