The server has two physical NICs (WAN & LAN). The WAN NIC is assigned a static WAN IP by the router. The server manages the NAT & Firewall with Windows' Routing and Remote Access service.
With OpenVPN, they're going to need to install a client where as with the solutions I've discussed there's nothing additional to install.
I would like to provide more information, but I need guidance as to what information is needed to solve this problem. The following is a starting point:
Why would RRAS be interfering? By the looks of it OpenVPN is listening on a completely different port than what RRAS uses. Furthermore, if the VPN client connects then that means it is working. Your problem is a routing problem. RRAS has an option to enable LAN routing and will function as a router between the VPN client and the internal network. Without that option set in RRAS a RRAS VPN client would only be able to access the VPN server. I'm assuming the problem is the same with OpenVPN. What mechanism does OpenVPN use to route traffic between the VPN client and the internal network?
The problem is that I cannot ping the server from the client after the connection is established (or perform any other communication for that matter).
I am trying to set up the most basic VPN configuration with OpenVPN. The server is Windows Server 2003 SBS. A typical client system is Windows 7 Professional.
Unless you have some requirements for VPN, I would strongly recommend you use the built-in Remote Web Workplace to permit remote access for your (assuming) remote workers to allow them to securely remote desktop into their computers through the Web interface (https://mail.example.com/remote).  
Any reason why you're not using the built-in VPN services on SBS 2003? It includes PP2P and L2TP over IPSec (with a bit of work).
I've found RRAS seems to have chosen to ignore the routing rules, so sends packets to the LAN's default gateway rather than back down the VPN. As the router is set up to route traffic for that subnet to the VPN server you end up with a routing loop and get TTL expired in Transit.
If you simply get Request timed out, try using traceroute (tracert x.x.x.x) and see if it gives you an information.
I've hit the same issue funnily enough, what response do you get if you try to ping a client from the VPN server?
In addition, as gravyface stated in his answer, why add the complexity of OpenVPN (on both the server and client side) when RRAS is a perfectly capable VPN solution, with the advantage of having a built-in VPN client on the client side. There's no software installation neccessary on either end, and there's minimal set up and configuration.