If I wanted to go the "Custom DNS" route, they host it all. It's $30/year/zone with a limit of 90 records per zone and 2.6M queries/month.
I use dyndns.org "Secondary DNS" service because I like hosting my own master server, but having the resiliency of 4 slaves (all geographically diverse) for just $40/year/zone. I get complete control of the zones, and the world can always access at least one of the 5 NS listed for my zones.
If you want to use a hosted DNS provider I'd choose a couple, as that will offer some protection against non technical issues (e.g. hey go bankrupt an d the sherriff ceases all their servers without notice).
Edit:  The concern about a registrar's servers going down is understandable but unwarranted. The hierarchical nature of DNS means that your site will continue to work even if they go offline.  The root servers are at the top of the hierarchy and are the only part of DNS that must remain operational for everything to work.
All my zones are hosted at ZoneEdit.  Each of my zones has at least two US-based DNS servers (the min. required), but a couple of my more important zones also have a third server located in a separate network in Germany.  I could add additional servers if I felt it was necessary.  Total cost for this? About $20/year/zone.
However, my problem is that if the domain registrars domain servers were to go down then surely we would lose our site as well? Am I correct on this assumption? If so how would we make this fail-safe. I have researched the use of managed DNS providers which provide multiple fail-over DNS servers but even if we use this does this still not make the domain name registrar the weak point in the chain?
I'm very much as "do it yourself" guy when it comes to almost all tech, including hosting.  But I don't host my own DNS because it's so critically important and commercial providers are extremely cheap.
You should have multiple DNS servers for your domain, ideally in separate countries as well as the country that you expect most of your traffic to come from.
I am trying to setup a completely failsafe DNS system. Our web application serving infrastructure is sound with multiple failover servers but DNS is a weak-point for us. We currently tell our domain registrar to use our hosting providers name-servers. From there I utilise a virtual DNS server to forward to the relevant web-server/load-balancer.
Personally I'd prefer to provide my own master server and have all third party hosts slave frm them, that way you don't get crippled by whatever tools (e.g. admn web gui)they give you to maanfe your domain, but you do get the other benefits of a hosted domain.
The Top Level Domain (TLD i.e. the .com .org.net .edu .mail and most of the country code ) DNS servers are numerous, and geographically seperated, so you probably don't really need to worry about those. In an case yhere is not much you can do about those, beause they are beyond your control.