You can define internal DNS servers for any namespace using the DomainNameInformation element in your ProfileXML. If you are using split DNS, there may be some cases where "internal" namespaces should be routed externally and not over the VPN tunnel. In these scenarios you'll have to create "exclusions", which are essentially namespaces defined NOT to use the internal DNS servers. To do this you don't simply leave the DnsServers field blank, but you leave the DnsServers out of the element entirely.
Adjusting the interface metric to be a larger number than the existing ethernet/wifi adapters will make it prefer the DNS servers on the local network, but NRPT rules will still work to send DNS queries for my own domain to my servers over the VPN.
The only way to change it seems to be editing the C:\ProgramData\Microsoft\Network\Connections\Pbk\rasphone.pbk file and changing the lines IpInterfaceMetric and Ipv6InterfaceMetric to higher numbers.  I changed them both to 100.
I suspect that if I could get the VPN to not list any DNS servers at all, the NRPT rules would kick in just for example.local, and everything would work properly. But I can't find a way to make it not use the ones provided by the RRAS server.
If the VPN is connected the metric can be changed in powershell with the Set-NetIPInterface cmdlet, but when the VPN is not connected, it doesn't show up there at all.  And changes there will not persist across reboots.
However, there's no way to adjust the interface metric for a VPN connection in powershell, nor in VBscript, nor .NET, nor VPNv2 CSP.
A potential workaround you could try is standing up a Server 2016 DNS server and implementing a DNS policy to do split-dns with geolocation awareness. This would allow you to tell DNS queries from the Device VPN subnet to use the external IP instead of the internal.
You can find more information here: https://directaccess.richardhicks.com/2018/04/23/always-on-vpn-and-the-name-resolution-policy-table-nrpt/
Just a thought, but maybe set a connection script .bat that adds the correct Public IP address of the mail server upon connection to the hosts file, and then removes it from the client's hosts file at disconnection?  Theoretically I guess you could always have it in the hosts file, and then they would just access the server from it's public ip even in the office.  Regardless that will override any DNS from the RRAS server.
After that, and in combination with the NRPT rules, DNS works as desired - all queries for example.local get sent to my AD DNS servers.  Anything else (including example.com) gets sent to the DNS servers of their local network.