From an email marketing perspective, the use of TLS is good practice and secure when you know that it is implemented through the entire chain of delivery.  However if security is your top requirement then encrypting the email itself before sending it is the most secure option (for example with PGP).
I am running an email server which is currently set up to use TLS if possible, when sending and receiving emails. 
Is there possibly some big provider who is already doing this or what do you consider best practice these days?
When you read in the documentation about this, there is also the option to enforce TLS and not accept plain text transmission of emails. It also warns you that some mail servers might not support encryption yet and enforcing encryption could block these servers.
As long as there are servers who don't support encryption, mandating it simply means they can't talk to you; that's bad.  Once everyone does support it, there's no difference between opportunistic and mandatory encryption.
As long as your server is set up to do opportunistic encryption with any peer that offers it, you get the best of both worlds: encryption when it's available, and email over plaintext when it isn't.
But is this still an issue one should think about or is it safe to say that enforcing encryption won't be a problem anymore? 
It is completely pointless, and probably actively harmful, to refuse email from encryption-incapable peers.
As to why one might take Viktor's suggestions over that of others, well, he wrote the TLS code as well as the DNSSEC, TLSA/DANE code for the Postfix MTA in addition to having been the one to have written the IETF drafts on both DNSSEC and TLSA/DANE. As such, I would say that his words on the matter carry quite a lot of weight, probably more than those of most.
Using opportunistic TLS is by far and wide the best solution. The MITM angle as an argument against it is a red herring. After all, as MH mentioned in a comment, even a "legit" SMTP with TLS connection can be MITM'd and the end user be none the wiser due to the vast majority of mail client's not bothering to validate certificates coupled with the vast majority of MTAs out there doing TLS are using self-signed certificates (at least if yiur not using DNSSEC and TLSA/DANE.) As a result of this and possibly other factors, it is even arguable that until both you and the rest of the world has implemented DANE/TLSA and DNSSEC, that while running opportunistic TLS it is better than not to also have anonymous diffie-hellman (while also using PFS) enabled as well. Due at least partly if not mostly to the fact that it will still encrypt the traffic protecting against the casual observer. In further support of this configuration (with a much more elaborate explanation than mine,) please see the comments by Viktor Dukhovni in this post in a postfix forum: http://postfix.1071664.n5.nabble.com/Disabling-Anonymous-Diffie-Hellman-td67965.html 
And as others have pointed out, encryption on-the-wire and end-to-end encryption are two completely different things, addressing different threat models.  Don't confuse the two.
I do have to concur on the idea of using opportunistic TLS. Although, I do have some to add to the idea as well. Some will likely be disturbed by the suggestions, however, as my suggestions here are not made lightly and without due consideration, before casting judgment, I ask that you please read the full discussion from the attached link. 