You'll find a useful article on this type of setup in the August 2010 issue of Linux Magazine (UK) that I think is called Linux Pro Magazine in the US.
I prefer to run my DNS in most cases, however there can be advantages to using external DNS providers in addition to your DNS if not just for redundancy.
"Is there any reason to have DNS that is more reliable than the applications on the domains it is serving?"
One reason your DNS should be reliable is email. Assuming you're also hosting your own email server consider what happens when your system goes off-line for any reason.
Self hosted: Any system trying to deliver a message sees there is no DNS for your domain and in most cases (dependent somewhat on how each system is configured) will give up as a permanent error.
You can gain the advantage of maintaining your own zones directly yet not having the footprint on the Internet by running a stealth DNS.  Your external providers would slave off the DNS you run but only they would be able to access your DNS via the firewall, which is a configuration I often use.
As mentioned by Nilesh, domain setups that use a combination of services such as Google Apps for Domain for email, plus self-managed services, is a very good reason to use a 3rd party DNS provider.
A mailserver that gets 'No such machine' because your DNS is down might not bother retrying the delivery later, while if it was able to resolve it to an IP that was thenunreachable it might queue it for later retries.  Also, ideally you have an offsite backup MX that will queue all mail for you so your main mailserver will get it once you get back on the net.  
I have been using DNS Made Easy for more than a year to manage domains precisely for such a setup, and given that DNS Made Easy boasts a 100% uptime record over the last 8 years, with solutions starting at less than US$3/month, it provides great value for money, and certainly more reliable even than the web infrastructure of Amazon, Google and Rackspace!
DNS is also a common service to target with a Denial of Service attack, which other providers can sometimes be better equipped to deal with.
Since you are now preparing for the next stage of your infrastructure setup, consider that services such as DNS Made Easy and DynDNS support Dynamic DNS records that can be updated via scripts. So for example, you might have a backup web & database setup on a cloud service. Should you need to re-direct traffic from your normal server infrastructure to an alternative site, for example because of an outage or a DDoS, an external monitor system could run a script and automatically adjust the DNS A-Record to reflect the changes in IP addresses.
On the web, it might not matter unless/until you use some kind of Content Distribution Network that is doing reverse proxying of content from your site - in that case even if your site was down, some content would be cached and so okay to show, but iwithout DNS to point at the CDN, it won't be reachable.
Hosted externally on more reliable systems: The sender will detect your system is down, treat it as a temporary failure and will go through the normal retry routine.