I would say see if you can pass this onto a decicated technician. As an anylyst I don't understand what you've been asked to do this. One thing will be certain, it's going to take a long time.
In my office, I'm running windows xp as a server(ofcourse it's a client os). It has many applications installed and has the partitions of 50GB, 80GB and 177GB sizes of data. I'm asked to migrate xp system to windows 2008 server.
Basicalyl lots of manual work. Painfull as hell. Sadly not exactly a way around - Xp was a bad choice to start with, and now it is SO outdated that every move will require reinstalls, posibly version ugprades on the apps.
Make sure your applications all run under 2008. p is ancient - at that time apps had no enforced security. 2008 has no writes ni the programs folder as main paradigm. Many apps did not honor that and were broken. Check, get udpatres from supplies as needed.
As others have said, this will be slow.  It's achievable, and should result in a better setup (particularly if the concepts of server & desktop can be separated), but it shouldn't be approached lightly.  Good luck!
With the VirtualBox server images all you should be able to "merge" the snapshots of the servers, save the .vdi files and move them over to the new server. You'll have to change a few things with the settings such as the bridged network adaptor (which I presume you're using). If possible, create a new virtual machine, take a snapshot, merge it, then see how quick you can transfer it to another machine.
What I'm going to ask here is very difficult for system analyst's like me to do and is generally done by experts.
I'm not sure what kind or load either role is putting on the machine, but the only way i'd attempt this would be with a 2nd machine.
Basically waht TomTom said, this is going to be highly painfuly and very time consuming. If you were going from XP > 7 you might have gotten away with it but going from an old desktop OS to the latest server OS is going to cause major headaches.