A database design is like a physical piece of paper in that it sets out the hard limits as to size. A paper page cannot be enlarged. In this analogy, the application program is like a form printed on the page. There is a lot that can be done to adjust how much data we can hold in the form.
In my environment, we use varchar(70) as the longest ones that I have came across are closely 60-70 char long, but it depends on your company's customer base as well.
Any variation of VARCHAR uses only as much space in the data block as needed. The additional bytes for storing the length are trivial compared to the space that would be wasted using a fixed-length CHAR instead.
There are a few considerations with this decision.  First and foremost is to use current and future predictions of necessary limitations that the data will have to conform to.  There's a reason why you don't want to set every string column data type to varchar(1024) when you are just storing a string that shouldn't exceed 32 characters (emphasis on the should keyword).
VARCHAR is the best data type to be used for email addresses as Emails vary a lot by length. NVARCHAR is also an alternative but I would recommend it to use only if the email address contains extended chars and keep in mind that it requires double amount of storage space as compared to VARCHAR.
Though the command to increase a VARCHAR size may look simple and run instantly on a small table, doing so on a table with thousands of rows or more is probably going to require some kind of database quiesce while regenerating all the data and index blocks. One way is to copy everything to a new table with the larger columns. Whatever technique is used, it's a-big-hairy-deal. Thus, you should consider the VARCHAR column size largely immutable once a production table is loaded.
Yes and no.  There is going to be a sort of offset for the variable length data to record the length of it.
Since a VARCHAR column length is really a "maximum length," it should be set larger than the maximum length possible under any circumstances. Only as much space as each row needs will be used. The application programs should then be designed with scrolling fields or whatever makes sense based on typical values.
So 64 + 255 + @ sign implies VARCHAR(320). You probably will never need this much but it's safe to have it, just in case.
If you have some sort of vulnerability where emails are all modified to become 255 characters, then you could potentially have a long performance impact of page splits.  This may seem out of the ordinary, and it most likely is, but you need to size your data to the business requirement.  Much like the age-old constraint at the database vs. application debate, I'm a firm believer that data type limitations and allowable values should also be enforced at the data tier.
Also, as a side-note, make sure that you have some Email validation check in-place for the validity of Email addresses.. like using check constraints or CHARINDEX
Which leads me to my next point.  The database is most likely just the data tier.  What does the application tier utilize?  For instance, if you have an application where you can only enter 80 characters for an email address, why would you want to the data type to be any larger?  Business needs to answer two questions: