[1]: http://spamscorechecker.com/ send to them that message and another message which have been delivered so you can see the differences between them. Keep us update because I am curious to know what the problem is.
They suppose you are spam. Please reconfigure your MTA according to spamhaus , Also check your MTA according to Barracuda.(Your IP address and so on.)
Messages usually aren't rejected based on failure of 1 criteria, especially by "the big boys", so I would guess that you're failing multiple tests, but the only way to find out exactly (considering the lack of information in the rejection message) is to ask them unfortunately.
554 is a permanent error, as you're aware. This isn't some form of grey-listing test to see how you implement queueing.
Sounds like gmail et.al. think you are spamming, so it is throttling you to see if you retry. You said your rdns is properly configured but make sure that any SPF records for domains you are sending as denote you as an allowed sender for that domain. Check if your IP is on any blacklists using one of the free online tools and if it appears, request that the IP be removed from said list.
I found this page for Google in relation to your problem which may be a good path to follow. I couldn't find a similar page for Yahoo at a quick look.
As others have pointed out, 99.9% of 554's are issued because you message failed an anti-spam test. The fact that you get the 554 after the end of DATA suggests that there is something in the content of the message that they don't like, although the server could have already decided that it's going to reject your message much earlier than that and has been configured to wait until the end for various reasons (1. waste your time/bandwidth/resources, and 2. gather as much information about your message as possible).
The hardest part of these situations is that you're failing policies that are developed and enforced by the receiving end; they might be rejecting your message because the body has the word "apple" in it and the last octet of your IP address is a multiple of 3 for all we know. Highly unlikely, but possible.