I'm no expert on them but take a look at http://www.cetecglobal.com/technologies/security/fire_suppression.htm as an example.
Any largish data center will have automatic detection and protection equipment.  if your's doesn't then it is time to talk to the higher ups.  Also many fire departments have excellent educational resources available, if you are hitting resistance from management about this, the fire department's outreach program may be able to help you make the case.
Also, I took an introductory course in firefighter training...  one of the first things they taught us is that those portable extinguishers don't hold very much.  It is an often fatal mistake to be overconfident in the size of the fire that you can put out with one.  Basically, anything bigger than a small trash bin is beyond their capability.  Also If the extinguisher is not specifically rated for Electrical Fires then do not use it, you can actually make things worse and potentially electrocute yourself too.
The biggest problem with the hand held fire extinguisher is that it is unlikely to be near the fire, unless it is in a very small server room.  By the time you go and get it and then get back to the fire it will be too late.
If you can't extinguish the fire in a matter of seconds then sound the alarm, get out of there and leave it to the professionals.
There should be no inappropriate fire extinguisher near the server room and the correct extinguisher should be readily available and clearly labeled. A fire blanket should also be available and in the situation being asked about that's what I would use if it's practical to do so. Either way, try not to breathe the fumes, which will be quite toxic.
If the room is large enough and/or contains enough valuable equipment then an integrated fire suppression system should be considered. We have them in both of our server rooms, with FM-200 being our gas of choice as its a fairly new install, rather than Halon, which I don't think you're supposed to use in new installs these days, at least not in the UK.
By which I mean that if you have enough computers and switch gear in one place to call it a "server room" then you have enough equipment in there that could be a potential fire risk, and at that point someone needs to have a sit down and have a think about procedures for dealing with a fire in that room and all the staff who are allowed in the room should then be trained in that procedure.
In both cases, while I'm not a health and safety bore nor do I wish to pretend to be one, this is one area where the right steps to take in the event of a fire in the server room should be given to someone before they are allowed to work in the server room, and the first step in the list of procedures should include a warning about risk of death/injury and instructions to stop fire-fighting attempts and evacuate if there are any possible doubts.
As an electronics technician, with considerable experience in ~smoke~ testing components, ;-)   I have found that killing the power is the most effective way to put out a small fire.  Most electrical fires are self extinguishing once the power is removed.
So the best thing is to kill the power and leave.  Given how toxic the fumes can be, either stay low or hold your breath as you sprint for the door.  Don't try to be heroic, you can get pretty bad lung damage in a very short time.  If anyone else is in the room do let them know too.
If you don't know what to do in the event of a server room fire then you shouldn't be in the server room...
The other option is a fire suppression kit designed for racks, if they detect a fire they'll flood the room with an innert substance to stem the fire before it takes hold. It's pretty expensive stuff but if it's a business necessity it's the best way to do it.
You should at the very least have a CO2/Halon/similar hand-held extinguisher in that room and training available for all people who might have to use it.