I would suggest you do that which has all the features you need and you are most comfortable with. Personally, I would suggest ESXi, because I value predictability and stability and think that such systems should be running many years without the need to change the base system (aside from security updates of course). If I had to choose KVM, I would therefore choose a distribution with long-term support of 5 to 7 years.
This is ultimately a question about how to optimize a physical->virtual machine move. I've found a number of posts that are somewhat related, but nothing (yet?) that appears to address it directly. Feel free to point and blame if I didn't search well enough... ;-)
ESXi can use local storage, an NFS mount, or an iSCSI LUN.  If you install ESXi on the bare metal, it can access the local storage, where you would simply create one or more datastores  (which you should be familiar with if you use ESX at work).  ESXi does have one serious caveat, which is that it's quite picky about the network cards it supports.  If you don't have an Intel or Broadcom NIC, it's not likely to work (as in, ESXi won't even recognize it).  So check the hardware compatibility before proceeding in that direction.  You also should check to see if your RAID adapter is supported.  If either the NIC or the RAID adapter is not supported, that would be a showstopper as far as the ESXi option.
My physical hardware consists of a half-dozen 2TB storage drives, an 8-core/32GB supermicro Xeon board, and a couple of reasonably fast SATA SSDs.
I'd like to move the file server over to a more recent linux distro and also move the bulk of the storage over to a ZFS based filesystem. I'm familiar with ESXi from a work environment, but there I don't manage the storage so that part is a little opaque to me. I'm trying to figure out how to handle the storage on this setup. I can see at least these options:
At the moment I have one physical machine that acts as a dedicated file server, running Ubuntu and ext4 over MDADM in raid5 mode. This is really the only "important" machine in my setup, as it's my local home backup and also serves as sort of a compute server for transcoding videos and other stuff like that. I also have a couple other small linux machines that I use for random, mostly unimportant stuff - I rebuild these often and if they break I don't really care as the important data is on the file server. I also have two older windows machines that I'd love to virtualize partially to save space/power but as much to get them access to much higher performance hardware.