BTW - Citrix XenApp and thin clients has always been an excellent solution for hospitals. I'm always amazed when I walk into my local practice of ~10 doctors and there are PCs all over the place. They must have 20. Even with 20, the TCO of Citrix makes sense.
I'm not sure there's a way you can do this in a way that's secure (or even legal with security compliance in HIPAA).
Or do you mean you're going to have X number of Citrix terminals that they just walk up to and they automatically log into the Citrix server as a system user, so you would have fifty doctors logged in as John Doe on the Citrix server at any given time?
The doctors want a computer that is always logged in, they want to walk up to the computer click on the application and then only log on to that application.  The doctors are accessing protected information at these workstations.  My boss wants to use citrix with thin clients at these workstation.  If we use Citrix presents its own problems.  My biggest concern is, with Citrix any user could click reconnect on the agent software and they would then have control of every session that was logged on using this system login account.  That would allow them access to many patients records as if they were another doctor, invalidating our audit trail, and at the same time violating HIPAA.  
As for an answer, I want to know how to make our citrix workstation idea work, but any idea that could make our doctors happy and still maintain HIPAA compliance would be welcome.
If you know this other hospital, I'd call their IT people and ask to arrange a lunch with their admin (if they're not out of state) or a phone meeting asking how they solve this issue if it's supposedly "like this other hospital" that the doctors want at your site. You could end up with liability issues if you're audited or sued.
First off, I don't want to do this, but the doctors want us to do what they like, and they like another hospital that does this.
Any time you try a "shared" access for simplicity you're going to end up with audit issues. Hope someone else has a better answer, but my first instinct is to contact the other place they're citing and ask how they did it.
To be clear, you're trying to set up terminals running Citrix clients to connect to a central Citrix server, so the doctors end up still having to log in with a username and password on the server? In that case wouldn't your security still be fine?