That said, I suspect that the cause of the high latency is in the router and that it needs to be replaced, but I would like to make sure before I go out to buy a new one. Is there any way to know for sure? Below I have posted my traceroutes: 
If saturating your broadband link causes latency to spike, your networking gear likely has a well known bug called bufferbloat. 
I have just moved into a new apartment and I am having some issues with sporadic bursts of high latency. Generally, when I am home alone my latency is quite low (no more than 20ms to a nearby city), but in the evenings when we are 3 people home my latency skyrockets to about 1,000ms. Additionally, my connection drops out frequently if I am not near the router. 
Some factors to consider: I have a Hitron Technologies router (which supposedly has many issues with latency and poor connectivity). The internet speed is at 10MB/s which is fine for all 3 roommates to watch Netflix simultaneously. There is a chance that my landlord has an illegal setup and isn't connecting to an official ISP (I live in Colombia). 
One extra tricky part is that during “prime time” in the evening, your broadband bandwidth might be less than at other times of day, so you’d need to adjust your traffic shaping to make sure your router is the bottleneck. There’s a commercial product that claims to automatically do this, called IQrouter from evenroute.com. i haven’t used this product so I can’t vouch for it. 
There’s a trick to solve bufferbloat even if you can’t replace the router that has the bug. You can put a second, anti-bufferbloat (e.g. FQ-CoDel capable) router behind the first router, and make sure all your network’s traffic goes through the second router. Also adjust the traffic shaper on the second router to make it an ever-so-slight bottleneck in both the upstream and downstream direction. That allows its anti-bufferbloat protections (Explicit Congestion Notification and intelligent packet dropping) to kick in before bloated buffer queues can build up on the buggy devices. 