If you don't have real time critical tasks, then any VirtualMachine of your choice (VMWare, VirtualBox, Microsoft's Virtual PC....) will do what you want. Backup on regular basis your VM and you can run it on any other computer without  problem.    
If so, can the process start by taking my current Windows 10 installation and "containerizing" it so I don't have to start from scratch again?
Is this a viable solution for a Windows 10 Home laptop? To make it a virtual machine, create a fully configured environment within it that is backed up nightly, and can then be restored on any hardware in the event of a failure?
**Footnote: It is simple to create a Live Linux USB with persistence, for the purpose you state, but that would be more useful for cross-platform development, e.g. Oracle, as opposed to MS SQL Server.
I've had some exposure to virtual machines on Azure, which I like the concept of having your fully configured environment containerized, which can be saved and moved to any machine with fairly little fuss and time.
I understand doing a mirror image backup of a drive could be a possible solution, but if you have a mirror backup from one laptop, I'm guessing that, if that laptop is dead (motherboard shot), you can't just restore it on another machine as some drivers, etc may be different due to different hardware.
As a software developer, you might consider the Enterprise edition, at ~US100/year, particularly because of MS support if you're developing a product for use on Windows OS.
I have data backup covered, which makes sure I don't lose my code, etc. But backing up and recovering the entire environment (installed software, configuration, etc) has eluded me, and takes a long time to setup on a new machine.
I'm a software developer and have lots of system configured aspects on my development Windows 10 laptop (SQL Server, IIS, IDEs, etc). Over the years, I've had several hardware failures and the resulting downtime to migrate from one laptop to another is painful, and costly in lost work hours.
Windows To Go is intended for this purpose, but MS has restricted it to Windows 10 Enterprise and Windows 10 Education. Though there are third-party tools such as WinToUSB, and possibly AOMEI Partition Assistant that are intended to enable Windows To Go from other Windows editions, I've not tested them.