The following solution works perfectly if you have sufficient privileges on your local machine to edit its host file:
Open the RDP client and enter 1 of your alternative DNS names. Note: port numbers should be entered after the DNS name, for example: Test1.localnetwork:80
A cheap solution if you only want two connections from your machine to a remote machine is two setup one connection using the target machines name and the second one using the target machines IP address.
After a bit of digging I have found your problem. The more recent versions of remote desktop don't save the password information in the RDP file. This is a change, probably due to security concerns. I'm not sure where this information is stored, but I do know that it is user specific information. That change has the affect of limiting the number of saved credentials per host machine (the XP media box) to one.
This behavior should only happen if you share a user account on the client machine. If you want different experiences, setup a second user on the win 7 machine and you won't see each others' last session.
A possible workaround is to save the rdp connection for the second user on some other machine to which I connect via rdp. Not nice, but it saves me retyping the password again and again. 
This fools Windows-7 ( and others ) into believing that the connection is to two different machines and it then doesn't confuse the credentials.
Actually, windows saves the RDP connection in a file that is stored on your user profile. The last connection made from a machine is saved as "default.rdp". All you need to do is setup the connection, go to the general tab, and hit the "Save As..." button. This will give you the option to create a file that will store your session information. Make a shortcut on your desktop and you are good to go.
If you want to have different users have different saved credentials, you'll need to create more user accounts on your client machines. When a person sits down at a machine, they will need to specify their user name to log into that machine, and then launch RDP to connect to the remote host. This separation will allow you to have separate saved RDP credential stores.