If you dual-boot with another OS, or if you can move the disk to another OS, you could use its tools for this job, too. Something like GParted or parted in Linux can delete an unwanted partition, for instance.
Not to bump an old post, but I had this precise issue today and this page was the best explanation I found online to the problem - namely the need to remove a hidden EFI partition on a USB drive in High Sierra -
Per the Apple Dev Pages "while the ESP looks like a FAT32 volume, it is actually an EFI file system", so the PS4 is mounting it as the first "readable" partition it sees. Hidden partitions are now inaccessible through Disk Utility, but I felt pretty comfortable erasing it on my USB drive using
to wipe that partition (as free space because the partition was too small to rewrite, but also too small to worry about). I can't guarantee I haven't compromised the drive somehow or destroyed its future-proofing - Leeroy Jenkins? - but it works beautifully so far, let me avoid a reformat to MBR, and allowed me to delete the hidden partition in mac OS without the old Disk Utility debug menu they've removed.
In Disk Utility, choose the flash drive itself (not the volume under it) and choose Erase from the toolbar.  In the window that comes up, make sure you have MS-DOS (FAT) selected as the format type (not shown in the screenshot below) and Master Boot Record selected as the scheme type.
Following this, running "diskutil list" shows me only the partitions on disk 2 that I wanted, and the PS4 skips right past anything Apple for my exFAT media partition. Thanks to the answers above for their help these years later and I hope this does somebody some good down the line!
NOTE: Make sure you select MS-DOS (FAT) as the format type.  I grabbed and posted the screenshot before I realized I had the wrong format showing.
I need to remove the EFI partition on my USB because when trying to copy files from my PS4, the PS4 chooses this partition and ultimately runs out of space, instead of using the much larger space. 
The solutions offered by Wes Sayeed and Gordon Davisson are perfectly reasonable, providing you don't have data on the disk you want to keep. If you do need to keep data on the disk's main partition, you can safely delete the ESP -- just not with Apple's Disk Utility. The command-line gpt tool should be able to do it, but I'm not an expert in its use, so I recommend you read its man page for information on how to use it. Another tool you could use is my own GPT fdisk (gdisk). See its documentation for an overview of how to use it. To delete a partition, you would:
Apple automatically and transparently creates an EFI partition on any GPT formatted disk (which is the default format).  To get rid of it, you must reformat the flash drive with the MBR partition scheme.
The EFI is about 200MB big and the USB storage is 16GB, apparently the only way to get the PS4 to write onto the large partition is to get rid of the EFI Partition.
Note that deleting a partition as I've just described will leave the space unused. The ESP is small enough that this may not be a big deal, even on your 16GB USB flash drive. If you need the space, backing it up and re-creating the disk with MBR (or using GPT but without an ESP) is a better way to proceed.