More specifically:  The processor was not fast enough under general circumstances.  Intel released the processor just as the processor speed to memory speed gap was widening.  Itanium, being a Reduced Instruction Set (RISC) processor required more bytes-per-instruction than its cousin, x86 variants.  The increased memory load, caused the processor to run slowly.
I heard that it was because AMD pushed Intel to allocate more resources to their mainstream processors in order to compete. AMD came out with their Athlon 64s in 2003, which had better price/performance than the Pentiums. There is a belief that if Intel continued to develop Itanium in full force then it would be faster than the current x86 processors. 
In the end a lot of technology did end up getting used in Intel's existing release of chips - just not easily visible to the end-user.
Sadly this means you will need a very advanced compiler to do this. Or even one per specific model of the CPU. (E.g. a newer version of the Itanium with an extra feature would require different compiler).
Creating such a compiler once is a hard task. To do that for every variation of a CPU is not economical.
All this was exasperated by the entire architecture being, essentially, a first release.  While RISC itself was not a new idea, many of the hardware components were and needed new layout designs.  There were also many new ideas in the Itanium instruction layout which needed to be thoroughly digested by the development community before high-quality software would become available.
In 2002, 128Gb of RAM was a mammoth amount, and as they already had an existing SQL Server infrastructure, it was cheaper to fork out for a few Itanium machines and load them up with RAM, than it was to switch to a different platform and different database.
Now that it's trivial to to get 128Gb (or more) into a commodity server, one of the large parts of the Itanium market that didn't have any real viable competitors (the Opteron came along in 2003, and now of course servers that can take hundreds of gigs of memory are ubiquitous) is flooded with options that were cheaper to buy, cheaper to own, and faster.
My first (and only) experience with an Itanium server was in 2002 at a chemical company where they needed an SQL Server to perform oil analysis to detect defects. This oil was coming from and going into multi-million dollar machines in a billion dollar company, so they had a cluster of Itaniums, each with 128Gb of RAM. 128Gb of RAM today is still a fair amount, but is easy and cheap to install in a server.
The other important part of the Itanium history that hasn't really been touched on is the fact that in 2001 with the Itaniums debut, it was impossible to get large amounts of RAM into commodity hardware. x86_64 was just a blip on the horizon and AMD Opterons wouldn't really even be released for another 2 years.
Quick answer: Poor performance.  Intel tried to release a revolutionary product when they should have evolved to the product they wanted.