It is perfectly normal that your "System Idle Process" takes all of the cpu when no other process is working - that doesn't mean it is using 99% of your TOTAL cpu.
Inside your guest, press CTRL + SHIFT + ESC and search for CPU usage: without any other program running it should be below 10%, and that is the real figure that you want.
It isn't reasonable to expect that all of the host CPU cycles will be available for the guest.  There are a thousand places where computation will need to be done on the host, from displaying its own console to logging to calculating network checksums.  If there is any iscsi going on this too will eat CPU.  If the guest is accessing the disk for some reason but isn't using much CPU, you'll likely see more load in the host than the guest.  The host might be processing traffic from the network and making routing decisions.
The best thing to do if it's really a concern for you (if you're not having any issues with resource scarcity it's not an issue), check out top on the host to see what processes are consuming cycles.
When the guest is doing absolutely nothing, I watch with sysinternals process watch on the guest. This shows that system idle process is between 70 and 99%, usually around 95%.
Completely fresh install of Windows Vista, upgraded to latest SP2 and all windows updates installed.
Given that this is an instance of some kind of vmware host in a ubuntu guest OS on a laptop, anything from the drivers which support the laptop hardware to cronjobs, update checking, time sync, and beyond can be consuming CPU.  If there is software raid, there might also be some calculations going on for that.  There could be filesystem indexing.
Note also that the processes consuming CPU might be niced.  If this is the case, they will run with less priority (probably less priority than the guest) and will give way if the CPU is needed for other things.
I have experienced a similar issue in the past, which was solved by setting the guest to have 1 CPU. This time that hasn't worked.