Additionally gaming on 1 card and running something else on the other has other additional complications:
For example, you could have Windows running as a virtual machine inside Linux. Linux would be using the CPU's on-chip graphics and Windows would be using the more powerful graphics on the card, perhaps for playing games.
For vtd you'd need a vtd compatible motherboard (a lot of the Asrock gaming ones have vtd), a vtd compatible CPU (check tech specs on Intel/AMD website) and a vtd compatible graphics card.
However you need to consider is how your software is going to deal with GPU acceleration: In nearly all applications I have ever seen the software that can make use of GPU acceleration for the heavy duty calculations just grabs whatever card is first, regardless if that card might be doing something else. (And usually the 2nd card doesn't get used at all.)  
This leads to stability issues as it is quite possible a Geforce driver part tries to control the Quadro and vice-versa.
I am building a workstation PC for Autodesk and Adobe CC work. Maybe a little bit of gaming on the side but it is by no means a priority. Is it possible to run separate drivers for each card, at the same time? So for example a Geforce card might be driving all the displays and performing any gaming related graphics but a compute card like a Quadro or Tesla could be crunching numbers on a 3D or video rendering application at the same time.
You can then run two different operating systems with the built-in graphics on the CPU running the host system's desktop and the client system's desktop has the graphics card "passed through" to it using vtd.
The only thing of this kind that I know of is running two GPU's using vtd technology, so far as home/desktop computing goes.
If you really want to try this always be sure to install the newest driver LAST. And be prepared to uninstall all drivers and redo everything whenever a driver-update (either from Nvidia or Windows 10 decides to give you an upgrade) messes things up again.
For starters combining a Geforce and a Quadro (or even 2 different models Geforce or Quadro) isn't the best idea. The cards are very similar, enough so that also the drivers have a great deal of overlap.
For normal displaying of graphics windows/screens a regular Windows application, like Adobe, Autodesk, etc. you can put each application on it's own screen/card and it will almost exclusively use the graphics-resources of that card.