Given that the Apache log illustrates that it cannot connect to Tomcat (from your error log) it would seem that it is the Tomcat application that cannot keep up.
If not then it would appear that your tomcat instance has died or deadlocked. If it has deadlocked then it is time to obtain a stack dump of your tomcat java instance using the jstack program (with the PID of the tomcat java program).
I did not see the timeout value on the Apache log you pasted. If it is 300, try changing it to 1200. We had the same problem and changing the timeout on Apache httpd.conf file from 300 to 1200 fixed it.
I have Apache acting as a load balancer in front of 3 Tomcat servers. Occasionally, Apache returns 503 responses, which I would like to remove completely. All 4 servers are not under significant load in terms of CPU, memory, or disk, so I am a little unsure what is reaching it's limits or why. 503s are returned when all workers are in error state - whatever that means. Here are the details:
According to Apache's server status, it seems to be maxing out at 143 requests/sec. I believe the servers can handle substantially more load than they are, so any hints about low default limits or other reasons why this setup would be maxing out would be greatly appreciated.
The latter was a huge problem because the popular Java HTTP interface limits the number of simultaneous connections to another web server to 2 by default (when I discovered this my jaw dropped). See http://hc.apache.org/httpclient-3.x/threading.html
I faced exactly the same issue. Take a thread dump at the time issue occurs, you will know which thread is getting blocked and henceforth blocking other threads too. Meanwhile all AJP ports get used and eventually Apache dies. But this issue has nothing to do with Apache settings. Issue is at application (tomcat level). 
When I was working as a sys admin for a large-ish Tomcat web site I noticed severe performance restrictions, and they weren't down to CPU but synchronisation issues between threads or delays in querying a back-end web service.
Have your tomcat instances deadlocked? I've witnessed two large corporate (different companies) tomcat projects suffer from deadlock - one was caused by an older version of a 3rd-party library being used.