You might be able to connect a USB-C storage device to the phone and move data to it.  Then you can remove the device when access to data is not needed.  I had an old Samsung phone that supported USB OTG, and believe it or not, I was able to connect a USB floppy and it worked.  The OS treated it like an external SD card.  The floppy was formatted FAT16 and it was recognized and useable by Android (though at 1.44MB of space, not for very much).
My old LG Intuition phone (ancient today) did something interesting but ultimately bothersome - when you connected it to a PC, it exposed an .iso file as a CD-ROM device.  This .iso file contained a Windows autorun setup and installer that would install LG software.  So the basic mechanism has been done before.
You can create a virtual drive in Windows.  You can then use BitLocker, VeraCrypt, or similar encryption tool to securely encrypt the drive.  Alternatively, another option would be just to use a uncompressed, yet encrypted Zip file.  You would then move that file to your Android (or any other device).  When connected to a PC, with the appropriate decryption software, you could then mount the virtual hard drive in Windows and use it as any other drive.
To modify an existing Android phone to do something like this will require a lot of work.  You will need recovery-level access to the device with a custom bootloader, so you can rewrite the entire device flash.  You will then basically need to "reinstall" Android over the smaller flash partition, which will be difficult since it will have to be done from the original files.  You will then need the necessary daemons and configuration running to detect an incoming USB connection and respond to requests for block I/O.
This would prevent the your phone/device and any of its applications from reading the unencrypted contents.  However, it would not prevent the device from being able to modify or delete the file.
Unfortunately this may be different or no longer possible in newer Android versions because it looks like there's a trend of making files accessible to the outside world with something like MTP and not block-level USB-mass-storage class access anymore (like Apple iPhone does).