I was thinking that if I were to use task scheduler to boot up the computer automatically even when the lid is closed at a certain time everyday, the computer would automatically go to sleep and then I would be able to wake the computer up with the external keyboard or mouse. The problem with this is that I do not know how to use the task scheduler program, I just found out about it from some web searches and tutorials online are not extensive enough.
Wake-on-LAN is a technology standard that allows a computer on a network to be "woken", i.e. powered on, via a special signal (called a magic packet) from another device on the network.
You can use Task Scheduler to turn OFF your computer, but it won't be able to turn it on. Your computer needs to be on for the task scheduler service to execute tasks.
Can we use the task scheduler and in some way create a trigger (trigger = tapping a key combination on an external keyboard) for the task (task = boot up computer when lid is closed)?
I'm not very familiar with these applications so detailed instructions would be very appreciated if there is a solution.
Both of these are low-power states you can use instead of shutting down completely. Hibernate will use very little power, and sleep will use slightly more. If you do this instead of shutting down, you should be able to wake your computer by pressing buttons on your keyboard.
I was trying to use Intellitype Pro (64-bit) to reprogram some key on the keyboard to power on my laptop even when it is closed. I had no idea how to use that program, and I figured that the computer would need to be on before I could create any keyboard shortcuts or triggers... which doesn't help when I'm trying to remote boot up the computer when the device is closed.
schtasks /create /tn "DailyShutdown" /tr "shutdown -s -t 300" /SC DAILY /ST 18:00 /RU "NT AUTHORITY\SYSTEM" /F
You can also use an app on your smartphone, assuming it is on the same network, to send WOL magic packets. For example:
I have a Microsoft Natural Wireless Ergonomic Keyboard 7000 as well as the mouse connected to my laptop via a wireless USB to my laptop. The laptop remains closed because I connected it to my monitor. I usually have to open the computer and press the power button, wait to login before closing the lid. I'm trying to fix this problem, even though it's more of a convenience issue, really to just learn about solving these kind of problems. I'm just started a computer science degree.