If you want to use this network as a learning tool, spending the time to make it truly reconfigurable (e.g. patch panel, etc...) is very much worth the time.
These are bandwidth rating and for the matter the current crop of Cat5e and Cat6 cables would be more than necessary for Gigabit ethernet. The 10Gbps ethernet is based on a 500MHz bandwidth cable, and I don't see it being useful for the time being for home users or even small to medium businesses. There is simply not enough data to put through these channels.
Until you determine this, worrying about cat5e vs cat6 and other hardware related decisions is pointless.
You mentioned you're wiring a half-duplex. Are you wiring the whole building (probably worth the effort, if you're already in the attic)? If it has multiple tenants, it might be worth considering using VirtualLans to segregate the various networks apart. Alternatively, you could just give each building section it's own switch.
Again, VirtualLans are powerful, and worth learning about if you're interested in networking, but not really worth the bother if pure utilitarian functionality is your goal.
You don't need a patch panel, you can terminate one end with an RJ-45 connector and plug it right into the switch and you can terminate the other end into a wall plate. It's not as clean, but it'll work and save you time/labor if you really want.
Is it going to be used exclusively for Internet access? If so, your needs are fairly relaxed, and worrying about switching topologies is unnecessary.
Basically, what I'm saying is that the expected usage of the network is (or should be) a critical factor in determining what and how it's laid-out and configured.
On the other hand, it's also possible to use your LAN for filesharing among local computers. In that case, having a fast local network becomes quite important, particularly if you invest in a centralized file server that uses some RAID variety.
Since everyone else here has done an excellent job on the technical aspect, I'll speak to planning aspect of this:
However, if you want no cables coming out from the wall without a socket, then, patch panel can keep the thing more organised. I think it is worth it for my home. i don't know about you, but this boils down to costs.
Go with Cat6. Those who say stay with Cat5e are probably the same ones who said you would not need anything more than MS-DOS to run your computer. Cat6 means you are not wiring the system again in a couple of years.