L3-solutions, in my experience, have been harder to understand by the parties I've helped. Cost may also become an issue if the hardware and software has to be supported by a manufacturer. Linux on a x86 machine is a very cost effective and feature filled router.
As many have said, there are good and less good sides to both L2 and the L3-solution. I've been employed by a telephone company earlier and I've also been helping smaller networks get started.
Given this, is it still considered 'best practice' to use routing and different subnets between the remote sites?  Or can we extend our 'local' (main site) network out to the remote site along with the main site vlans?  Is that still considered a suboptimal or even bad practice?  More to the point, is there any reason not to?  (Aside, I understand the 'backhoe interrupt' issue; the separate physical pathings is expected to handle that contingency).
I'd vote for a L3-routed solution, mostly because of the smaller broadcast domains but also because traffic can be prioritized and firewalled with ease. If someone needs L2-connections they can tunnel them over the routed network and even encrypt the traffic on their own if they wish.
L2-solutions are easier to understand and cheaper if everything works. The works part is usually ruined by someone reconnecting a cable that they thought had been accidentally disconnected. Loop protection and Spanning Tree might be of use but will most likely cause more harm than be of use.
The benefits of a L3-solution is that loops and other broadcasts are contained within a much smaller domain. The best example is that if someone accidentally creates a loop in one of multiple routed branch offices, only that office disappears while others can continue working.
Back in the old days, when you had two geographically separated sites, links were pretty constricted so we put routers on them and, well, 'routed' between ip subnets-per-site.  That was best practice at the time.
I would recommend layer3 switches which will route at lan speed. If you have good fiber you could run a gigabit network over your fiber with such devices and still benefit from advantage of a routed network (reduced broadcast domain, access lists, etc).
Now we have a fiber bundle between the two geographically separated sites.  It's our own 'owned' fiber so a middleman isn't a concern.  The testing indicates that the bundle can handle multi-gigabyte traffic without a problem.  Additionally, the fiber ring has included multiple redundancies including separate physical pathings.   All well and good.