Technically it's not very safe but I guess it depends on where you are; if you're in a building full of techies then it's really not safe, if you're in on a private island in the middle of pacific then it's probably overkill to have any security. You have to measure your need first.
If you need to support WEP, then go ahead and take these steps, but also accept that the network is insecure.  You'll want to isolate it from the rest of your LAN, using a multi-router setup as described in Steve Gibson's guide.  Basically, you put one router running WEP on the "outside", connected to your upstream internet connection.  Intruders may get on that wireless segment.  You then connect a second "inner" router to one of the LAN ports of the outer router.  Connect everything that doesn't need WEP to that router.
At best you are stopping casual intrusion.  Using WEP, white-listing particular MAC addresses,  disabling DHCP, and disabling broadcast of SSID create a few hoops for people to jump through, but they're all trivial to defeat.
We all know WEP is broken, so as an added measure I enabled a wireless access list on the router so that only devices with specified MAC addresses which are in my access list are permitted to connect to the router.
WEP is easy to crack (there are videos of it being done in 10 mins, etc) and MAC addresses can be spoofed. However, what are you 'securing'? If this is a business then NO, this is definitely not enough security. If it's your home internet, and your 10 neighbors all leave their wireless open, and you have a software firewall on your computer, then maybe this is enough.
It's like when I go hiking in the woods with my girlfriend. I'm not scared of the bears... I might not be able to outrun them, but I can at least outrun her!
I know it is possible to spoof a MAC address from a device for the purposes of accessing a secure network like this.  But is it easy?  Is using WEP and a wireless access list good enough to prevent most hacking attacks?  Or should I do whatever I can to ensure all devices support WPA2 in the future?
I use a Netgear wireless router, with various wireless devices connecting to it.  One of my wireless devices doesn't support WPA2 security, so I had to downgrade the security on the router to WEP.