I'm current using Corsair VS 550 (550 watt) power supply unit ,but i don't have any UPS. Is there any chance that my power supply unit and hard disk could be damaged for not using any UPS.can anyone help regarding this??
Voltage fluxuations: normal voltage for any computer is even when incandescent bulbs dim to 40% intensity.  How often does your AC voltage fluxuate that much?  Voltage that low is good voltage for any computer.  If voltage drops lower, then a computer simply powers off.  Low voltage does not cause electronics damage despite urban myths that say otherwise.  Urban myths exist because claims are subjective; provided without the always required hard numbers.
A UPS is an uninterrupted power supply meaning it's essentially a giant battery that is connected to your computer and, in the event of a loss of power, it will kick in and keep the computer running. While its primary purpose is not to prevent surge damage a decent UPS will include a surge protector (if I remember correctly power supplies do also).  As @DanielRHicks said it is pretty rare that a loss of power can damage the machine especially compared to an unprotected surge. 
Blackouts will not corrupt data on any disk drive - except if using an obsolete file system.  How does a disk drive first learn of a power off?  DC voltages start dropping.  Normal shutdown and sudden power loss is same to every disk drive.  But an obsolete file system (pre-1990 vintage) on a disk can cause files to be erased.
In short (as Daniel said again) unless your power is really crazy you most likely won't need either. UPS adds another layer of protection against the very small chance of damage via surge and loss of power. Surge protector will only add protection against surges which your power supply should also have protection against. UPS's are relatively expensive so I don't think you'll need either.
Read surge protection spec numbers for a UPS.  Often hundreds of joules.  Destructive surges can be hundreds of thousands of joules. A UPS is near zero protection.  But just enough above zero so that many will speculate a UPS does useful protection.
A UPS is temporary and 'dirty' power during a blackout.  Blackouts and brownouts do not damage any properly designed harmware. A UPS provides power so that data can be saved.
UPS is protection of data not yet saved to the disk.  And if someone does not want to wait for a reboot.  It does not protect data on the drive and does not protect hardware.
A UPS can also be some of the 'dirtiest' power seen by electronics.  For example, this 120 volt UPS outputs 200 volt square waves with a spike of up to 270 volts.  All electronics are so robust as to consider ideal even that 'dirty' power.