JollyFastVNC enter the picture as a bonjour-aware VNC client with a nice "available servers" browser. This offers up the remote Mac "hostname:port" for each running Vine Server instance and the console instance, allowing easy navigation if you can't recall your port numbers.
5/ Go to the Startup tab and check the "System Server..." button. Start the system server instance on the default port (5900). This will be your console VNC server to use. (I recommend that you set a password on this)
Then for each user, I made fastswitch one of the start up programs in Accounts, [account name], Login Items.
As of OS X Lion this is supported by the built-in Screen Sharing, if you have set up multiple accounts:
Now, for each user, have them log in and add Vine Server to their dock and repeat steps 2, 3 and 4 above.
Vine Server provides for a "personal" VNC server instance on a unique port number for each logged in user. The only trick is that the user needs to be already logged into the Mac with VineServer running under their account to be able to VNC in. The solution for the bootstrap problem this introduces is the Vine Server "System Server" that provides a VNC session for the Mac console - and thus, let's any user with access the console session log themselves into the Mac (and thus, start their own private Vine Server instance)
The second issue is that if a user logs in via the remote VNC Console session, their subsequent use of the Mac will be visible in both the console session and their "personal" VNC session. i.e. the console session remains bound to the last logged in user until someone else logs in either remotely or locally. We work around this by opening the remote console session again after logging in and using fast-user switching to "show login window" which seems to force the console session to dissociate again.
3/ Open Vine Server Preferences and note the port number assigned to this VNC server instance. Manually re-enter that number to "pin" this instance to that port for subsequent launches. Also recommend that you set the password here for this unique user session.
Since I'm using this computer solely for terminal purposes, I created a script that automatically does a fast user switch once you log in.
If you do this with a user that also uses the computer physically, they will be put in the fast user switch state, where they will have to just relogin again.
2/ Log in on the actual Mac console as an admin user that you also want to grant remote access to. Launch Vine Server as that user, and check the "Open at Login" preference.
Coderebel makes iRAPP Terminal Server.  Unlike Aqua Connect Terminal Server (ACTS), the price is listed on the site which is $298 as of this post.  iRAPP currently supports Snow Leopard while ACTS says "a fully compatible version... is not currently available at this time."  I haven't tried either but wanted to add the info I found to this question.
You should now be able to log into two VNC user sessions: one as the Console on port 5900 and one as the admin user you just logged in as.
The only two issues we've noted with this are that, if the Mac is power cycled, the System Server won't start automatically. An initial user needs to log in and start it via the UI.