Having used IPv6 for the better part of a decade now, and watching the changes go by, I have a little bit of perspective on this.
The most important point here is this: NAT is not the firewall. These are two completely distinct things. In Linux it happens to be implemented as part of the firewall code, but this is merely an implementation detail, and isn't necessarily the case on other operating systems.
Finally there's one more thing: If you have a system on the IPv4 Internet today, it gets all sorts of inbound connection attempts on a variety of ports, attempting to exploit known vulnerabilities or brute-force passwords. The IPv4 address range is small enough that it can be scanned in its entirety in less than a day. But on IPv6, in almost a decade I've never seen such a connection attempt on any port. The much larger size of the host-part of the address makes scanning the range virtually impossible. But you need the firewall still; the fact that you can't be found from an IP address scan does not mean you can't be targeted by someone who already knows your address because they got it somewhere else.
To answer the rest of your question, let us take a look at a real live IPv6 router firmware, OpenWrt version 14.07 Barrier Breaker. In this router, IPv6 is enabled by default and works out of the box using DHCPv6 with prefix delegation, the most common way that ISPs will assign address space to customers.
Indeed, many people are using IPv6 right now and have absolutely no idea that this is the case. When their ISPs enabled it, their home routers picked up the DHCPv6 responses and provisioned the addresses and everything Just Worked. Had I not needed more than a /64, I could have just plugged it in with zero configuration. I had to make one change to get a larger prefix delegation, though this is easy enough.
Once you completely understand that the thing in the router protecting your home network is the firewall, and not the NAT, then the rest falls into place.
OpenWrt's firewall configuration, like any reasonable firewall, blocks all inbound traffic by default. It contains a way to set up port forwarding rules for NATted IPv4 connections, as most every other router has for years. It also has a traffic rules section for allowing specific traffic to be forwarded; this is what you use instead to allow inbound IPv6 traffic.
In short, generally, no you won't have to be too overly concerned about incoming IPv6 traffic because it will be firewalled by default, and because IPv6 address ranges can't be easily scanned. And for many people IPv6 will come on automatically and they will never notice.
Most home routers I've seen with IPv6 support also firewall inbound IPv6 traffic by default, though they might not provide an easy way to forward inbound traffic, or it may be confusing. But since I never actually use factory firmware on any home router, (OpenWrt is that much better) it's never affected me.