From my experience with most Customers using a 3 year PC / server replacement cycle you can typically get use of an Open Business license "set" for Microsoft Office on two PCs (over 3 - 6 years). Likewise, I have Customers today who, had they purchased Open Business licenses for their Windows Server OS when they bought server computers in 2003, would be running that same license of Windows Server 2003 on the server computer that replaced that orignal machine (in 2006) and in some cases on the machine that replaces the 2006-era machine today (for those Customers who don't need / desire Windows Server 2008 yet).
First, there are Open licenses that aren't Company-Wide. Company-Wide is $20k to not have to track individual licenses. That's a big $20k when a good VAR will take care of that for you. I've found that the Open Business licensing gets me prices
However, contact a Microsoft rep. After they just posted a horrible earnings report for the past year, they might be willing to cut you a deal in some other way. Back when I was in the M$ world, I managed to lever a $300 Microsoft Partner Program Action Pack into a whole bunch more licenses for the keys included in our action pack just by talking to the Microsoft rep and asking for a good deal. 
Is that with or without software assurance? Last time I ran the numbers SA added about 15-20% to the total at the Open Select level so I'll bet it adds a bit more percentage on the lower levels. 
I would compare the numbers with SA and without - i'll bet you without SA it comes damn close to where you are now. Also you need to factor in the Windows Domain CALs - they don't come with an XP Pro license. And Exchange Cals if you use Exchange. Then you need to look at your upgrade cycle and decide if you think that upgrading inside the SA time frame would happen. Also you should know if you are currently XP/2003 shop you are buying a Vista/2k8 license with downgrade rights so that upgrade you won't need SA for.
I question why anyone would purchase OEM Microsoft Office or OEM Windows Server. When you replace equipment you are forced to "re-buy" those licenses. The "savings" of going OEM over Open Business doesn't seem to be worth it at all when you factor in this "re-buying" expense.
The second thing is that those OEM licenses are a waste of money if you think you're being legit by buying them. You're not an OEM, so if you get audited those licenses won't be worth anything. So compare the Open Value or Open Business license prices with the right licenses for your situation and I think you'll find they come in at a slight (but only slight) savings.
Probably not. Took a trawl through the website and it looks like a bunch of additional meaningless marketing. 
For me, most of the value of MS Open licensing is that I don't have to deal with buying boxed copies -- I can call up CDW or whoever and say "I need five more Office 2007" and I get an email shortly thereafter with the license agreement, which MS's eOpen website turns into license keys. (It's even easier for the products that don't use keys for the volume licensed versions; those I don't even have to coordinate buying and installing.)