After a few months or so I started to notice  that I was saving 'conflicted copies' in the same folder as the original data.  The newest data was on the conflicted copy.
I've been running Quicken & Dropbox for some time now.  But, I don't have Dropbox running directly on the same system as Quicken.
I was able to restore Quicken to the c-drive of one computer and I used the quicken online backup service $10/yr. No more conflicted files.  Every two weeks, I now delete and then recopy my quicken files including the backup files, to dropbox while quicken is closed on the one computer.  I don't overwrite the files to dropbox directly although I guess I could.  
Earlier this year, my Windows desktop died.  So, to get Quicken up and running again (and later TurboTax), I installed the apps into my VirtualBox Windows XP guest on my laptop (host OS is Ubuntu 10.04LTS).  Since Dropbox in the Guest made things slow, I had opted to share the Dropbox folder to VirtualBox and access it that way.  Automatic backups work fine, and usually Manual Backups (on exit) usually work too.
Edit: In case it matters, we use Windows 7 64-bit, the newest version of Dropbox, and will buy the newest Quicken (2011).
I wanted to start using Quicken 2011 and thought it would be a good idea to use it with Dropbox so my wife can access the file from another computer and we'll also always have an online backup. I don't care about simultaneous use (only one of us will pay the bills at time anyway). After doing some research it seems people encounter a problem with this setup. For example: http://forums.dropbox.com/topic.php?id=32044
Had Quicken 15 including backup files on several files.  Seemed like a good idea at the time. Online backups as  well as backups to other computers.
Quicken therefore never directly accesses files from dropbox and Dropbox only receives quicken files when the Quicken program is shut down.
I make regular backups...I keep them all on Dropbox.  Also, to the person above who had corrupted files...the great thing about Dropbox, is that if that really did happen, then you can login to Dropbox and revert to an old version. 
I have been using Quicken with Dropbox for well over a year.  I have not had any issues at all with corrupted files or Windows hanging as described above.  You do need to remember to close out Quicken, however, before you start Quicken on a different computer.  If you don't, Dropbox will accidentally create a duplicate.  