If your situation is 2 or 4, the reliability really shouldn't be a concern anyway, as you won't be losing any actual data and the device should have a long enough warranty to cover you until you can go for the best option of actually having more RAM.
This will not be as fast as a SSD disk, since you will be limited to USB bandwidth (assuming your old computer doesn't have USB 3.0), however it still will increase your computers speed noticeably. 
SSD is definitely a steroid to any system. Even machines already sentenced to scrap are revived by it.
Now, in terms of reliability, that's difficult to say. Firstly, you haven't actually stated what resource intensive operations you plan to operate that may require a swap partition. The swap partition will only be used beyond 4GB of RAM, so unless you're running operations that are consistently causing >4GB RAM to be rewritten, you may not be causing any PE cycles on SSD blocks at all, and these are our usual indicator of how soon an SSD will fail. An HDD will have mechanical factors to take into account. Even reading across an HDD will cause the heads to seek, possibly quite a lot if you're also using the drive as a normal storage device as well as swap memory. This will cause additional wear to the drive.
Let's consider that speed is a factor. Firstly, your motherboard being of an age where it has DDR2 RAM may only have a SATA2 controller, and as such, you'll probably be bottlenecking the maximum throughput of a lot of SSD's anyway. Of course, the main benefit to an SSD is the incredibly low latency and high IOPS against a HDD, which, if you're using it purely as a swap drive, is going to be very important.
Of course, swap is definitely not a replacement for real RAM, and can't come close to matching the speed RAM, even at DDR2 speeds, can reach. An SSD (heck, even a bank of RAID striped SSDs) looks incredibly slow if you're comparing it to RAM. An HDD looks incredibly slow when compared to an SSD. If you must use a swap in order to make up for a lack of RAM, an SSD will at least give you a fighting chance of making up for the drop in speed.
I assume you have already guessed what my thoughts are leading to: unless I had some RAID for which I would have to buy HDDs of the same type, I would buy SSD(s) (well, I did it).
Hard disks will always suffer from permanent uncorrectable errors, this is a dirty secret not widely mentioned.   SSD's are less susceptable in theory but is must still happen or they would not need the Bose-Chaudary error correction.  Just bung it in and have spares (you may not be able to buy one when you need one).  
Secondly, SSDs are a lot more reliable now than they were at their first implementation (Which unfortunately tarred them as unreliable years later), with most of them easily outlasting the normal life of a machine. Again, it's very hard to say exactly how long a device will live (manufacturers will provide MTTF and MTBF averages, but these are on the whole quite misleading and can only give you a vague statistical idea), but one metric that can give you a somewhat better idea is the warranty periods offered, which typically are longer for SSDs than HDDs now (Figured I should cite a source - Samsung provide 36 months minimum for SSDs and 24 months minimum for HDDs).
Forget the lifespan, just buy enough for spares, and diarise to swap them out in 5 years, like car batteries. 
In your HDD vs SSD debate let me give you another alternative: use a USB Flash drive formatted to swap and mount it. Those have a limited lifespan too, but can easily and very cheaply be replaced in case of failure; especially since you will use a relatively low memory flash, such as a 8GB one (2 x RAM-Size should suffice).
On the other hand, factory specifications really state that their statistical lifetime is smaller than that of HDDs. BUT today even the cheapest SSDs are sold with 3 years of guarantee. I doubt anyone can foresee what kind of gadgets we will use 3 years from now, that's pretty fair. Sure, it may still crash within that time frame but, as we all must know, if you have something in one instance only, without a backup, then you have already none, no matter of you have HDD or SSD.
The SSD should have internal "wear levelling".  Be aware that your CPU usage will increase (fire fed faster) and there may be increased stress on the IO components.  In particular older UDMA motherboards were marketed as UDMA100/133 when in fact this was a "burst" speed and not expected to be continuous.
Your question states speed is not a factor, but resources are. In this case, HDDs give you far greater GBs for your money than any SSD on the market currently. If you're after pure resource, HDDs would currently be your best option, depending on exactly how much extra resource you feel you need. However, I'm not sure you really mean that, as in the wrong set up, the speed difference could be very significant.