Also, they are much cheaper than $399 on Amazon now.  You're looking at $329.99 base price, with a $50 rebate after that - so $279.99 total @ Amazon.  I don't know whether to be happy about the price, or worried that a new model is on the way ;)
As far as I know.. there's no real vendor that sells a 6-bay solution for $300. There are real quality solutions out there, but way above and beyond that $200-300 range. 6-8 bay solutions teeter from $800-$1600 depending on features, vendors and included disks. 
If you have a big enough case (something with at least 3 5.25" external bays) you might want to look into a disk enclosure like Supermicro's CSE-M35T-1B (black version; there's an off white one available too). It houses 5 SATA disks and add a good RAID card, you have your own little NAS-ish storage. Granted, this enclosure is meant for one of Supermicro's Workstation/Server chassis, for the price ranging from $95-$150 (depending on vendors) it's a nice workaround (assuming you have a computer for it). I bought one on eBay and with the bing discount, I managed to get one for just around $88. I'm still setting it up so I can't say how good/bad it is, but it might just be the workaround you're looking for.
This is possible with eSATA enclosures. I've never personally used them so I can't recommend one. Someone recommended Drobo and while they are pretty sweet and versatile (low end models), my complaint with their 4-disk model is that it doesn't include 100/1000 ethernet (to my knowledge). Redundancy is great, but speed does become an issue with data storage (especially HD stuff) so unless you have firewire, I'd say Drobo isn't worth it without some access speed like gigabit or USB 3.0. 
Build a new computer. Your budget is too low for specialized hardware which is often overpriced because of its "speciality" and all it does is being computer with few features.
Just wanted to reiterate the Drobo answer - I say it doesn't get any easier for the flexibility it offers.
You could try looking into Windows Home Server, I think they has great expandability but it isn't free like ubuntu. I think its $99 but you can expand raids and drive sizes by just adding new hard drives into the mix.
Yes, however your budget is extremely difficult to work with. For the amount your looking for, you'll barely get a 2-drive NAS. Maybe 4 drive NASes are available if you look hard enough, but I doubt the quality in that price range.
No. Don't bother. Cheap is cheap and I wouldn't chance spending $200-$300 on something that may break down without a warranty, receipt or anything of substance.