Today I took out the video card. Then used compressed air to clean the CPU heatsink/fan, the GPU heatsink/fan, clean some dust. (Dust was definitely accumulated but not completely obstructing airflow. The case is Antec 900 and is very spacious.) Then I moved some power cables. I turned on the computer and I noticed that the mouse got power (previously it had not gotten any power). Then I put the video card back in. Turned on the computer and voila... the computer turned on and the screen worked.
There's a lot of metal in your computer, and metal expands when hot / contracts when cold more significantly than the less-dense materials around them. So not only will you see some parts unseating themselves as the seasons change, but the situation is exacerbated by the big difference in temp between being powered down vs. running temp.
The computer in question broke a couple weeks ago. Specifically the computer was broken in such a way that when I turn the computer on the computer turns on but the screen does not get any signal! 
One thing that might be important to note: The USB keyboard and USB mouse were not lighting up at all (as in the keyboard scrolllock did not light up even when you pressed it. and the mouse optical laser did not turn red).
Reseating your video card can definitely help (though it sounds like things started clearing up before then).
What you did solved both the above possible causes.  It was a hardware problem, nothing at all to do with operating system nor programs: no keyboard lights, etc indicates that.
Not having any screen from the computer is very alarming because without a screen... you are very limited in what you can do to debug the computer.
How old is the hardware?  Is it moved much?  Age = deteriorated electrical connections.  Movement = poor electrical connections.
Family look at me like I'm crazy when I try to convince them to reseat cards and connections when there's a blank screen or "boot disk not found" error, but it's usually a winner.
I don't know what fixed this computer! What is the most likely thing that fixed this computer? I will auto-upvote anyone who provides credible links to backup their answer.