I note that these earlier posts are a year old, and my VirtualBox is the most recent Version 4.0.4, so Oracle has not fixed this bug yet.
Sure enough, when I switched the others to 2 CPU's the issue disappeared.  From previous experience, I know that switching to 2 CPUs also enables the IO APIC option in the motherboard section so I suspected that was the truly interesting change.  That is, this one:
I did not experience this issue on an i720 8cpu machine with 8 gigs running 64-bit Win7.  I ran 3 VMWare virtual machines plus the VirtualBox, all with 2-gigs memory, and had no CPU issues whatsoever.
Following Adam's advice i checked the Enabled IO APIC option but to no avail. So, i followed kmarsh's idea, which took probably less than a minute to try, and processor usage went down from 15-20% to 4-5%.
I run VirtualBox 3.1 on Ubuntu with a Win XP guest. I have noticed to my surprise that when I pause the VM (its screen grays out) VirtualBox continues using 15-20% of the host's CPU.
Note that you have to have the machine shut down to change this setting, otherwise it is greyed out.  Once I had enabled this on the guests and restart, it didn't matter if I had 1 or more CPUs, the 15-20% CPU utilization went away, so I thought I would share my solution here.
I tried the hack described above with the DOS VM, but with no success (running Ubuntu 12.04 guests on a MacBook Pro with OS X).  I also tried the kernel parameter changes mentioned in the Oracle thread, again no change.  No matter what I did, my guests seemed to eat 15-20% CPU each.  However, I noticed that the one guest I happened to assign 2 CPUs was not chewing 15-20% - it was behaving as expected.
The settings used were, Name: Memory Hack, Type: Other, Version: DOS. Memory Size: 4MB, Hard Drive: Do not add a virtual hard drive. Click [Create]. Starting the VM asks for a start-up disk, i used: Host Drive 'D:', click [Start]. Virtual machine states: "FATAL: Could not read from the boot medium! System halted." At that point, the cpu usage dropped, so i minimized the window. Starting a second VM makes no difference.