In a game like Mastermind, each try eliminates possibilities (in Prob & Stats terms, tries are not "independent", unlike a game like "guess the coin flip"), improving the probabilities as the game continues. The more a player knows about the code from feedback (symbols locking, symbol match counts, and other feedback), the fewer combinations the player has remaining to check and the better the probability on the next check.
Letting the user know a little bit about the problem space can help make it a little easier: e.g., do you use a color more than once, is there a pattern, etc.  Increasing the number of colors, or the number of slots, adds more complexity.
A good deal of research has been done for you, actually.  The enjoyable problem is trying to see how few moves can be done to solve the problem.  If you look up Mastermind_(board_game) in Wikipedia, you'll see that for a six-color four-slot game, there's a Six Guess algorithm, that Donald Knuth busted with a Five Guess algorithm, and later two more smart guys got it down to a little more than 4 guesses per game on average.
Games are about balance IMHO, the problem I have about this question is your giving an already strong position more advantages without considering strengthening the weaker position.
For instance, if a player can choose between 4 colors/symbols for 6 spots there are 4*4*4*4*4*4 or 4^6=4096 possible combinations. 4 colors/symbols for 20 spots is 4^20=1,099,511,627,776. With over a trillion possible combinations, that means the probability of a player guessing the 20 spot on the first try is worse than winning most lotteries.
Playtesting. Make a bunch of variations (you could also vary difficulty by changing the number of available colors) and bug everyone you know to try them. Look at the win/loss ratios of the various versions and go from there.
The more options you give the defender naturally the harder it becomes to crack (because of permutation). But what about the attacker, competition in favor of a position is never good as it undermines the basic principle of fair play (equal opportunity).
Hopefully that should be a good start to help you find some of the difficulty information you are looking for.
I'd also point out that the game goes by the name of "Bulls and Cows", "Codebreaker", and "Jotto" -- you may be able to find independent research papers under these names that are useful.