Another advice on this thread was to use GPT fdisk to repair damaged GPT data structures or FixParts (same link) to repair damaged MBR data structures.
Without knowing exactly which block your post-split, smaller Windows primary partition ended on, and which block your post-split, Windows extended partition started on, there's no way to fix this. Also, even if you did know those block numbers, if you ran any OS that did a read-write mount of that "recombined" or "larger, no longer split" Windows primary partition, and wrote any data to it, there's a chance it could have overwritten the blocks at the beginning of the post-split extended partition, corrupting that volume and wiping out its records of what files are stored where.
One way to fix this (assuming the directory data structures at the start of the extended partition didn't already get stepped on), would be to read up on GPT and MBR table formats and low-level tools, look at what your GPT and MBR looked like before the Mountain Lion upgrade (assuming you have those tables backed up somewhere, which is somewhat unlikely because a lot of backup software backs up files or partitions, but not the entire disk including the partition table sectors), look at what they look like now, and use the low level tools to repair the damage.
It can be downloaded from TestDisk Download. Extract the files from the archive including the sub-directories.
Mac OS X uses a hybrid GPT + MBR, where the GPT is authoritative and the MBR is not.  When using a Hybrid GPT + MBR, you need to make sure that every single tool you use that ever edits partition tables knows how to handle Hybrid GPT + MBR setups correctly. I suspect the partition-splitting you did in Windows only updated the MBR, and the OS X Mountain Lion update saw the discrepancy and "fixed" it by overwriting the "corrupt"/"incorrect" MBR with a new copy of the data from the "authoritative" GPT. So it probably wiped out any information about how you'd split that Windows primary partition into a smaller primary plus an extended.
As you can see in red mark, it still says 157.59GB but only shows primary partition (see green mark) having 79.97GB so now I am missing that remaining partition. I tried System Restore but there is no restore point and also tried seeing the parition in Safe Mode but no luck. Can anyone tell me what went wrong and what should I do? 
If you do have a sufficiently recent (but pre Mountain Lion upgrade) full-disk backup that includes the partition tables, you might be able to fix this without going to low-level, something like this:
I suggest you to use TestDisk. TestDisk is powerful free data recovery software! It was primarily designed to help recover lost partitions and/or make non-booting disks bootable again when these symptoms are caused by faulty software, certain types of viruses or human error (such as accidentally deleting a Partition Table). Partition table recovery using TestDisk is really easy.
I have a Mac Book Pro with 320GB HDD, I had Mac OSX (139.70 GB) on one partition (using BOOTCAMP) and Windows 7 (157.59GB) on other partition (Bootcamp). And in Windows I divided that single partition in to two, primary partition (with 79.97GB) and remaining as an extended partition. Yesterday I upgraded Mac OSX Lion to new Mac OSX Mountain Lion and it completed successfully, but when I started my system in Windows mode it doesn't showed my extended partition, see the picture below:
Under MacOSX, if you are not root, TestDisk (ie testdisk-6.13/testdisk) will restart itself using sudo after confirmation on your part.
To recover a lost partition or repair the filesystem from a hard disk, USB key, Smart Card, etc., you need enough rights to access a physical device.