I've looked through the given answers and am surprised to see that Trinity Rescue Kit has yet to be mentioned!
Remember that this may not be the problem, but if it is, then reinstalling windows or running a virus scan won't fix the problem. 
If after placing the hard-drive back and it still runs poorly then I'd consider reinstalling Windows. The time taken to try to solve any other issues will not be worth it.
Also, salvage what you can of the files you need (taking care not to copy anything that could potentially infect another PC. Obviously, make sure that the host PC has got good protection before doing this.
Open up task manager and go to the Performance tab. At the bottom is a button for the resource monitor. Once its open, check out the Disk Tab at the top and look and see how long requests are taking. Looking at my computer and the computer image found on that site, I'm going to guess that for a non SSD drive, sub 100 millisecond response times seem to be what you are looking for. If the computer has more than 1 second response times for everything, your computer is going to be slow no matter HOW you boot it. Comment back on here and let us know if the disk response time is slow. If it is, you can try to run a Check disk on the drive and wait forever for it to finish and see if that fixes the problem. 
Try taking the offending hard drive out and plugging it in to an external caddy, then plug this in to a working PC. You can then check the disk, run anti-virus/malware checks, defrag, etc. 
I'm going to hop in here and ask more about this first, and then post my assumptions about the computer. You said that its using only 1-5% of the CPU, but its still moving slowly? While I'm not saying that it isn't riddled with viruses or anything because it could very be, I do want to point out that this is screaming faulty hardware to me. Next time you get the Task Manager open, Go check out the resource monitor. Here is a simple guide to using the resource monitor.
This software suite is my goto solution when I'm trying to remove malware/viruses/rootkits from an infected computer. It has 3-4 different software solutions that will go out to the net and fetch its latest definitions before it starts its scanning/cleaning process.
You could have a look at Windows Defender Offline, it scans for malware and give you the option to fix.
The proper solution is to nuke it and re-install windows. If that simply isn't a solution, the only other proper solution is to use a live cd/usb linux setup to run anti-virus software packages from outside your windows installation.