What we're really missing is, of course, what people in the real world are doing. Whitepapers are great, but that doesn't necessarily reflect on reality. 
I use HP LTO4 drives with bacula, which doesn't have any key-management features.  In fact, its support for hardware encryption is to call an external script which sets the key on the drive before reading and writing.
For the record, I use Amanda Enterprise as my backup solution, and I don't use the tape encryption that it provides, for the very reasons that you mention. 
From a practical point of view, I would say to not change the keys, since it quickly becomes unmanageable if you do. If you're worried about backup security not being good enough, then beef up physical security around your tapes, by using a service such as Iron Mountain, or by building a storage system with good physical security yourself.
I want to enable encryption on all of my backup tapes.  I more-or-less know how to do this technically, but the procedural and human elements of implementing this are tricky.
I was researching tape encryption, and I came across a great whitepaper from HP talking about LTO-4 encryption, and included are many possibilities for key management. Here's a basic rundown of the available options that are presented: 
I think a passfrase is better for this job, as it can be only in the mind of people authorized to know it, while a digital device can be lost, stolen and so on.
Very good questions. I too would like to see good answers from people who know more about this than I do. :-)
In order to avoid losing passfrase I wrote it on a wax sealed letter, gave it to the company property and he stored it in a security strongbox.
Lastly: I would prefer to have all encryption & backup handling in one system, so there is less risk of recovery not working. By this I mean to use the built-in encryption in software like Retrospect or Backup Exec, rather than drive-level encryption.
I'm answering this, and I'm making it a community wiki, since I am copying and pasting from an existing document. 
One possible way to go is to build a couple of "lifeboats", i.e. packages with install media, usernames and passwords for essential systems like backups, Active Directory and others (i.e. the stuff you need to load a backup if the main site has been completely destroyed in a fire, but not the backup data itself). You should store these lifeboats securely off site, for example in a bank vault, or in a high-security safe in a remote office with an alarm system. And lastly document this, so that others can figure out how to use the lifeboats after you've left the company, if needed.