However there are several scenarios in which computer A may make an ARP request for computer C. For example
You are correct that on a layer 2 level all computers will receive broadcast packets, including ARP requests for IP addresses of networks other than their own. The IP stack of those computers will however discard those packets as they recognise it is outside of their own local network.
L2 broadcasts and unicast floods will be received by all three computers in your example. For example, if A ARPs for B, C will also see this broadcast.
If you does a capture, you can see that on the same switch, that if from one network to another, you tried to make a ping request, this one "Who has x.x.x.y?  Tell y.y.y.y2" never happens.
However, in this example, A will never send a request to C. If A has traffic for C, A will use it's own IP address and mask to determine if C is on the local network or not. In this case it is not, so A will then look to it's routing table to determine where to forward this traffic (on most computers this will typically be the default route or gateway).
Normally computer A will look up computer C's IP address in it's routing table. Based on this table it will determine that the "next hop IP address" is the IP of it's default gateway. It will then look up the default gateways IP address in it's ARP table and if needed send an ARP request for the default gateway. In this process computer A never ARPs for computer Cs IP address.
But switch see is x.x.x.y and x.x.x.y2 are on the same network(It has his ARP table who match MAC with IP).
To be accurate, based on your description, all three of your hosts are on the same network from a L2 perspective and the switch knows this to be the case. The switch doesn't care about what IP addresses are as it is only using the L2 addressing.
Let's extend this example a bit and say that B is misconfigured with a /22 mask (smallest network to include both 192.168.1.0/24 and 192.168.2.0/24) instead of the /24 it should have. If B had traffic for C, it would determine that C is on the local network and B would ARP for C. When C receives this ARP request, it should not respond as it would determine that B is not on the local network.