Whether it makes sense for you is - your decision. I tried to lik ethem, I realized they are stupidly expensive. SuperMicro has "Twi" cages with special mobos that are 2 servers HU and possibly cheaper (at least for me).
If your ESX hosts are clustered, you can take advantage of some HA features that will automatically migrate your VMs to a new ESX blade if you have issues with another. Additionally, when clustered, VMs can be distributed across ESX servers based of resources usage (automatically, or with policies).  Another benefit of having a setup like this, is you can utilize SAN replication to backup your VMs. 
Having said that, we use Dell's current Blade offerings for some of our ESXi servers and we've been very pleased with them, and I know plenty of other places that are using blades from other vendors equally happily.
Especially when you combine that with SAN storage.  The individual blades themselves would be the ESX hosts (Cluster them), and you would have shared SAN storage (iSCSI, virtual iSCSI, etc) that all the ESX hosts could store the VMs on.  Then blade enclosure acts as centrialized management for all the physical blades and the uplink(s) into the physical network.  
I see these days I can pick blade enclosures and servers up for relatively low cost and see the term blade and vm mentioned quite a lot.
Blade Centres are a way of achieving a high density of computer power in a small, well defined and contained unit. Other than their ability to reduce cabling mess, power drain, space requirements, etc. compared to traditional 1U servers, there's nothing special about them; each blade is a seperate server and you still need to plan how to provision, manage, etc. each blade (though some high end blade centres will come with tools to make this easier, too...).
Well, a Blade CENTER is a cage for blades which are indicvidual servers. They share some hardare (power supplies, central routing, controller subsystem and KVM) but at the end every BLADE is a SERVER. The advanttage is central administration. The negative is the price for the center / chassis.
So my question - how would a blade setup work with wmware - is the whole enclosure seen as one big machine and yhr more blades you add the more computing power/resources you get in VMware - or are the just x number of seperate servers?
They have potential disadvantages too; a blade centre with just a few blades might cost more than a number of equally configured 1U servers, they generally can't carry massive local storage on each blade, and network/comms might be an issue, both in terms of number of ports available and flexability of configuration. 