Networks interconnect in two main ways. (and various variants in between the two) in a "transit" relationship there is a provider-customer relationship. The provider provides the customer with the service of carrying their data to and from the internet in general. A peering relationship is a more mutual thing, it allows network A (and their customers) to communicate with network B and their customers but it's not transitive. If A peers with B and B peers with C thendata will not be allowed to flow from A to C via B. Peering is usually settlement free (neither side pays the other though someone has to pay for the actual link) and may go via a private connection or via an internet exchange point depending on traffic volumes and local customs. 
The more connections you have, the better service you give. So, there comes a time when your ISP needs to connect to other ISP not available through the IX, let's call it ABC.
You put your equipments on the IX premises, get agreements with other ISPs on the same IX and now your ISP is public and working. You pay a rent for using the space and electrical power of the IX.
Then you can rent the use of a limited bandwith on a link to ABC belonging to a third-party provider, let's call it XYZ.
There are exceptions but usually the long distance links will either be within a given providers network (and obviously paid for by that provider) or from a provider to their customer (and paid for by the customer). Peering links are usually relatively local.
As I understand it all of the tier 1 providers have a major presence in the USA (though many are now owned by foreign firms) and peer with each other there. Most of them also have a substantial presence in western Europe and peer with each other there too. That is a large part of the reason why internet transit is much cheaper in the US and western Europe than elsewhere.
Your ISP is growing and then there is a moment that you can consider stop paying a rent for the limited bandwith to XYZ and then you deploy your own connection with more bandwith directly to ABC eliminating the monthly fee.
Larger providers will often refuse to peer with smaller ones because they see it as losing a potential customer and/or as an unbalanced relationship where the large provider does most of the work of moving data around and the small provider gets most of the benefit. This is more of an issue in the US than in Europe as the access providers are larger, more monopolistic and are often vertically integrated with tier 1 providers.
Sometimes a provider may establish a point of presence (a router in a rented rack, connected back to their main network) in cities or countries where they don't otherwise operate in order to participate in peering there. 
You will need to put a router to connect your servers and users to the rest of the world, so the best place is an Internet exchange point (IX). The primary purpose of an IX is to allow networks to interconnect directly (as they are inside the same building), eliminating the cost of installing costly cables from your ISP to high-tier ISPs.
The ISP keeps growing, so you are considering to connect directly to ISPs on other continents, then you have to pay a monthly fee for bandwith on a submarine cable, unless your business has grown so much that you can deploy your own one.
Like you said, the internet is something like multiple networks along the planet connected each other. On your example, there are some networks, small networks, eg: your company network, taht is connected to your ISP, and that ISP is connected to a bigger ISP, and so on, until arrive to BIGGER points of interconnection, called IPX, forming the internet.
At the top of the pile are the "tier 1" providers. These do not buy transit from anybody and all peer with each other. Becoming a new tier 1 is extremely difficult. 