As a UDP application developer, it is helpful to know that the destination port is unreachable, so the ICMP error message is helpful and appreciated.
The ICMP Destination Port Unreachable prevents the majority of this data from ever being sent. It doesn't need to be processed/sent by C, it doesn't need to transit the network(s) between C and S, and it doesn't need to be received and processed in any form by S.
My question would be why not? Per the RFCs, this is action is allowed. I would even go further and suggest that this should be recommended. You can silently discard TCP segments, but should not with UDP.
Now if C was going to use UDP to send this data to S, it wouldn't need the handshake as it is connectionless. There will also be no missing acknowledgements to slow down/halt the flow of data (and eventually time out the connection). C simply starts sending data and will keep sending data. Barring server S doing something (like sending an ICMP Destination Port Unreachable) or the application on C stopping this transfer for some reason, it will continue to send 3 TB of data to S. S must still receive (and then discard) all this data.
It is the fact that UDP is connectionless that it should be sending this response. TCP cold simply discard segments in this situation because it is connection oriented. Let me give you an example of why sending an ICMP Destination Port Unreachable response is a good idea in this situation. 
My doubt is why an icmp destination port unreachable error message generated for udp. Why we can't simply discard the udp packet if the destination port is not reachable by saying udp is connection-less
Say computer (C) has 3 TB of data to send, and believes it should send it to server (S). If this were a connection oriented TCP transfer, if the port is not available, the TCP handshake will simply fail.
Because the keyword is MAY, it is not required for the receiving host to send a destination port unreachable if there is no process listening at that tcp or udp port, but it is allowed per the standard. 
There are few things more infuriating then when you try to do something and it doesn't work with no indication is to why it didn't work, so you have no clue how to fix it or who to yell at to get it fixed.