Well another issue is that it increases the likelihood of a future fire or data loss.  The power supply for example could take out the HDD and MB when it finally dies.  Computer power supplies usually have almost no fire protection compared to say, the setup in an automobile or your household wiring.
On top of what Twisty and ultrasawblade raised, some cases are not designed well (or not well made), and may inadvertently place sources of heat (CPU, GPU etc) too close to material that melts or may burn.
In my case, I had a side fan, with a cable that draped over the Graphics card when the case was shut. One hot summer day I noticed a burning smell when playing games, and the cable had melted partially. I tied it up properly and never had the issue again.
Same idea as what others have said, open the case up, and if you see any discoloured or disfigured parts then try and determine what could cause it.
Open it up, if you have scorch marks on your motherboard, back up your data and replace your motherboard.
I would bet a bug or other pest crawled into your power supply and was at the wrong place at the wrong time.
EDIT: Back up your data anyways.  Also, do not open the power supply to check.  If you notice nothing burnt/scorched with your motherboard or any other component in the system, replace the power supply.
My previous computer was on nearly continuously. It turned out my Media Center PC had over heated and the capacitors were bulging all over (the electrolytic kind.) Needless to say my replacement computer was designed with 2 ideas in mind, solid components (that would be harder to stress) but more importantly, a non-manufacturer model specific case so that the aor flow would be far more effective. I have only had this computer for 3 years but it seems to be doing well so far, I probably went overkill with solid component motherboard. But as far as cooling goes, while I may have overkilled it, it certainly is not as awful as what was in that media center PC. crammed in a case and small opening ans well as fans. 