If you have the time you might consider setting up your own Bind DNS server and gluing it with your registrar so you're in full control of the records.  Then purchasing additional IP addresses for your host and using IPTables / postfix to rotate mail between them (http://www.host1plus.com/tutorials/operating-systems/linux/how-to-setup-ip-rotations-for-emails-on-linux).  
Lastly, you could use a third party like Google Apps for Work or Mailchimp and connect via PHP by doing something like this: http://www.beginninglinux.com/home/php/send-plain-text-e-mail-from-php-using-gmail-secure-smtp-server
Also worth mentioning is if you're sending out that kind of volume through one IP address without rate limiting and resends then it's possible the specific ISP you're sending to is briefly blocking the connections.
I did try to work this issue out with my server (BlueHost) but they were not able to help me (they helped me with other issues though).
I have a messaging system on my app where users can send messages directly to other users straight from my domain (not going through Mailchimp's Mandrill templates or Google Apps). I also have cron jobs that sends users' statistics to about 5,300 users every week. Again, the script sends messages straight from my domain.
Additionally, I used Microsoft's mxtoolbox (http://mxtoolbox.com/) to test my email and the result of tests says a DMARC is missing or invalid. 
Most e-mails are going to users' spam box, which I need to fix as soon as possible. I recently found out an app that tests e-mail deliverability and gives scores based on how well configured your email server is (among other things). This is the URL https://www.mail-tester.com. I was able to fix several things and my score went up from -0.2/10 to 7.7/10. However, although the tester says my e-mail is "good stuff", I know hundreds of emails are either not being delivered (returned because sender is not trusted) or going straight into the spam box.
But this is not enough, you have to configure the MTA. I think you need to use an MTA  (postfix for example) and not the php script. That's if you have the opportunity to access the server configuration.
Does anybody know how to add a DKIM signature and DMARC to emails that come from the domain itself. Are there a command lines that I can use to do that? 
The last thing I need to fix to have an almost perfect score is to add a DKIM signature to the emails. Hopefully that will increase deliverability rates. This is the message the email tester gives me about DKIM: "Your message is not signed with DKIM. DomainKeys Identified Mail (DKIM) is a method for associating a domain name to an email message, thereby allowing a person, role, or organization to claim some responsibility for the message."
DKIM must be added to the DNS records for your domain.  I'd also suggest adding SPF records (Also added via DNS).  You can probably Google or search the knowledge base for your host on how to do that.  If you aren't using Bind or some other DNS server on that CentOS box to handle your DNS then you may need to add them via your registrar.